Title: HyMem: Hierarchical Context Management for Long-Horizon Agents via Information Isolation

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.15703v1

Published Time: Tue, 18 Aug 2026 01:08:57 GMT

Number of Pages: 16

Markdown Content:
## HyMem: Hierarchical Context Management for Long-Horizon Agents via Information Isolation 

XinQi Wang 1,2,3,* , Jinwei Xiao 1,2,* , Sijia Cui 1,2 , Hongming Zhang 1, Yanna Wang 1, Qingyang Zhang 1, Bo Xu 1,3 

> 1

National Key Laboratory of Cognition and Decision Intelligence for Complex Systems, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences 

> 2

University of Chinese Academy of Sciences 

> 3

Nanjing Artificial Intelligence Research of IA 

> *

Equal Contribution 

wangxinqi2024@ia.ac.cn 

Abstract 

Large language model (LLM) agents often per-form poorly on complex, long-horizon tasks be-cause their context becomes increasingly clut-tered over time. As interactions accumulate, de-tailed execution traces and intermediate outputs dominate the context, making it difficult for the model to retain and use high-level planning information. Most existing methods address this issue through compression or retrieval ap-plied to a single, flat context, which does not clearly separate different types of context in-formation and often leads to degraded reason-ing. To address this challenge, we propose HyMem, a hierarchical framework that explic-itly separates the agent’s context into distinct functional layers. HyMem organizes context by function to separate high-level planning from execution and complex analysis. Its isolated reasoning module handles complex subtasks without adding intermediate reasoning traces to the persistent planning context, while its memory management module preserves task progress across context refreshes through struc-tured summaries. These components reduce redundant context accumulation, retain task-critical information, and support coherent long-horizon reasoning within a limited context win-dow. Experiments on GAIA and Browsecomp-plus show that, with DeepSeek-V4, HyMem achieves average Pass@1 scores of 66.7% and 61.3%, outperforming the strongest baseline by 6.1 and 4.7 percentage points, respectively. Fur-ther analysis indicates that HyMem effectively controls the growth of the reasoning context, allowing the model to maintain focus and accu-racy across complex, long-horizon tasks. 

1 Introduction 

Large Language Model-based agents have demon-strated remarkable capabilities in tackling intri-cate, long-horizon tasks across scenarios requir-ing extensive environmental interaction, such as graphical user interface manipulation (Qin et al., 3 6 9 12 15           

> Reasoning step
> 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5
> Key-info density of context (%)
> 020k 40k 60k 1510 14 19 24
> step
> 1.6% 5.8% 0.8% 1.5% 1.7% 1.9%
> ReAct score=0
> 01k 2k 3k
> Context position (tokens)
> 12345step
> 3.6% 9.2% 8.9% 12.0% 12.8%
> HyMem score=1
> Key information is a smaller fraction of context under ReAct One task: the same key fact across steps
> key-info tokens other context tokens end of context

Figure 1: Changes in task-critical information within the agent context. As the context length increases, effective task signals are diluted by redundant historical information, reducing the agent’s sensitivity to core constraint information. The left panel shows changes in task-critical information during task execution on GAIA by agents using ReAct and HyMem, respectively. The right panel illustrates the changes in the position and density of ReAct and HyMem within the context in a task example. 

2025; Tang et al., 2025), in-depth research investi-gation (Wei et al., 2025; Jin et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025b; OpenAI, 2025; Google, 2025), and web-based information retrieval (Zhou et al., 2023; Li et al., 2025d; Qiao et al., 2025; Cui et al., 2025). However, when facing scenarios that mirror the complexity of real-world tasks—necessitating a seamless integration of macro-strategic planning and micro-tool manipulation—LLM-based agents still encounter significant challenges. A critical bottleneck emerges from the structural mismatch between the agent’s cognitive processes and its con-text management. Long-horizon and complex tasks inherently involve different information streams: high-level strategic planning which requires stabil-ity and continuity, low-level execution traces which are often noisy and transient (Zhao et al., 2024; Yu et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025b; Zhao et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2024). In standard flat context ar-chitectures (e.g., ReAct (Yao et al., 2023)), these 1arXiv:2608.15703v1 [cs.AI] 16 Aug 2026 distinct streams are interleaved into a single se-quence. As shown in Figure 1, the redundancy information from execution steps rapidly accumu-lates, creating an "information flood" that dilutes and eventually submerges the sparse but critical signals of the strategic plan. This leads the agent to lose track of its original goal amidst the details of tool usage. Prior approaches have attempted to mitigate con-text constraints through techniques such as context compression (Yan et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025) or external memory retrieval (Yang et al., 2026; Leng et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2025a; Li et al., 2025c; Chhikara et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2023). However, these methods typically operate on a pre-mixed flat sequence, making it difficult to distin-guish the underlying reasoning signal from the exe-cution noise. Specifically, compression often leads to the loss of critical reasoning chains, and external memory retrieval frequently fails to preserve tem-poral logic and struggles to differentiate between high-level strategic planning and discrete execution steps. Ultimately, these strategies merely address the symptom of context length rather than the root cause: the way different types of information are mixed together in a single sequence. To address the challenges, we propose HyMem, a framework that enforces hierarchical manage-ment and isolation between reasoning layer and execution layer. Instead of treating context as a passive log of past interactions, HyMem man-ages it deliberately to keep only what is useful for decision-making. By decoupling high-level strate-gic planning from low-level execution details, the framework encapsulates noisy interaction loops within a dedicated Action Layer, ensuring that the Planner Layer context remains clean and fo-cused on high-value strategic signals. This source-level isolation fundamentally blocks the propaga-tion of redundant execution information into the decision-making space, allowing for sustained rea-soning clarity. Complementing this, HyMem uses a structured compression method to summarize past interactions into concise representations, re-ducing context size while preserving essential task information. As a training-free solution for the long-horizon reasoning task, HyMem offers seam-less, plug-and-play convenience for complex, long-horizon tasks. To validate the effectiveness of the HyMem framework, we conducted systematic evaluations on two representative benchmark datasets, cover-ing complex information retrieval tasks as well as general-purpose agent reasoning tasks. HyMem improves average Pass@1 over the strongest base-line by 6.1 percentage points on GAIA and 4.7 percentage points on Browsecomp-plus (Wu et al., 2025b; Lu et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025; Yu et al., 2025). On hard Browsecomp-plus tasks, Pass@1 increases from 14.0% to 30.0%. Ablation stud-ies show that isolated reasoning is important for long-horizon tasks: removing this module consis-tently lowers task success, indicating that complex subtask analysis should remain separate from the persistent planning context. Structured memory serves a complementary role by preserving task goals, completed milestones, and reusable tool ex-perience across context refreshes. These findings suggest that effective long-horizon context manage-ment requires both selective information isolation and continuity preservation, rather than context compression alone. Furthermore, analysis of con-text length trajectories reveals that the HyMem ar-chitecture’s global specification inference capabil-ity is less affected by redundant information during execution, demonstrating its potential for sustained reasoning and extensive exploration in complex, long-threaded tasks. In summary, our contributions are as follows: (1) We formalize context dilution in long-horizon agents as an information-density mismatch between sparse planning signals and dense execution traces, and introduce hierarchical context isolation as the guiding principle. (2) We instantiate this principle in HyMem, a training-free framework that separates plan-ner, executor, isolated subtask reasoning, and structured memory management through ex-plicit information boundaries. (3) We evaluate HyMem on Browsecomp-plus and GAIA against several methods. HyMem achieves average Pass@1 scores of 61.3% and 66.7%, outperforming the strongest base-line by 4.7 and 6.1 percentage points, respec-tively, while maintaining comparable token consumption and tool-call counts. 

2 Related Work 

LLM-based Agent Frameworks. LLM-based agents have been widely studied as systems that combine language-model reasoning with tool use 2(b)  Executor  Layer 

PLANNING 

(a) Planner  Layer    

> task subtask subtask
> Tools
> Quality Assessment
> complex
> subtask
> easy
> subtask
> Result
> complete Result
> Execute
> task
> Executor
> Result

(c)  Isolated reasoning module  

> previous Planner context
> complex
> subtask
> Tools Reasoning
> ×m

(d)  Memory Management module       

> Planner & Executor
> layer history
> Auxiliary LLM
> Auxiliary LLM
> episode memory
> task_description:....
> event_1:....
> event_2:....
> work ing memory
> goal&challenge:....
> action_1:....
> action_2:....
> tool memory
> tool_name:....
> turn_1:....
> turn_2:....
> compress
> Planner Layer context
> Planner context Executor
> context
> Memory
> update
> Redundant
> process information
> Result&Evidence
> Reasoning Info.
> Query :
> between 1990 and 1994 inclusive,
> what teams played in a soccer
> match with ........and four
> substitutions, one of which was for
> an injury in the first 25 minutes of
> the match.
> HyMem
> Answer :
> Ireland v Romania END

Figure 2: Overview of the HyMem framework. Upon query arrival, the PLanner Layer (a) performs task de-composition and iterative planning. Sub-tasks are routed to the Executor Layer (b) for execution within isolated reasoning spaces (c) based on complexity, returning refined results for strategic synthesis. Simultaneously, the framework maintains context efficiency by compressing historical trajectories into structured episode, working, and tool memories in (d), which are re-injected to ensure long-horizon task continuity and reasoning focus. 

and environmental interaction (Wang et al., 2023a; Team, 2025; Jin et al., 2022). Representative frameworks such as ReAct (Yao et al., 2023), Plan-and-Solve (Wang et al., 2023b), and Re-flexion (Shinn et al., 2023) improve task solving by making intermediate reasoning, action selec-tion, planning, or self-reflection explicit. Recent agent systems further extend this paradigm to web search, GUI control, and long-horizon information-seeking tasks (Yang et al., 2025b; Wu et al., 2025a; Li et al., 2025a). Closely related to our work, THREAD (Schroeder et al., 2025) explores recur-sive child threads for deeper subtask reasoning. These methods demonstrate the value of structured reasoning workflows, but they mainly focus on how agents decompose, execute, or reflect on tasks. HyMem instead focuses on how information should be separated during execution: high-level planner, tool interaction, and deep subtask reasoning are placed in different context spaces, and only syn-thesized results are returned to the main decision context. 

Agent Memory and Context Management. An-other line of work improves long-horizon agents through memory construction, retrieval, summa-rization, or learned context management (Mei et al., 2025). External memory systems such as A-MEM (Xu et al., 2025a), Mem0 (Chhikara et al., 2025), and MemOS (Li et al., 2025e) organize reusable information outside the immediate con-text and retrieve relevant memories when needed. Intra-task context management methods such as ReSum (Wu et al., 2025b), MemAgent (Yu et al., 2025), MEM1 (Zhou et al., 2025), AgentFold (Ye et al., 2025), and context-folding approaches (Sun et al., 2025) compress or learn to retain useful tra-jectory information during long tasks. These ap-proaches reduce context pressure, but they usually operate on trajectories where planning signals and execution traces have already been mixed, or re-quire additional training to learn memory opera-tions. HyMem is complementary to these meth-ods: it uses structured memory to preserve task continuity, but its central mechanism is architec-tural context isolation, which reduces the amount of low-level execution noise that reaches the planner context in the first place. 

3 Methodology 

As illustrated in Figure 2, HyMem is a training-free inference-time controller for long-horizon LLM agents. Its central design principle is typed con-text isolation: planning, tool execution, isolated sub-task reasoning, and memory consolidation are maintained in separate context spaces, and only schema-constrained messages are allowed to cross 3their boundaries. This design prevents raw exe-cution traces and intermediate deliberation tokens from being directly appended to the main planning context, while preserving task continuity through structured memory. 

3.1 Problem Formulation 

We consider an LLM-based agent that solves a user query q through iterative interaction with an envi-ronment E. At step t, the agent emits an action or reasoning output at and receives an observation 

ot ∈ O . A conventional ReAct-style agent main-tains a flat context: 

Ct =  P, q, (a1, o 1), . . . , (at, o t), (1) where P is the system prompt and all items are concatenated as tokens. The information in Ct is heterogeneous. We use two functional projections to describe this struc-ture: Zt = πZ (Ct),Xt = πX (Ct). (2) where πZ (·) denotes a conceptual selector that extracts planning-relevant information from the context, πX (·) denotes a selector for execution-level traces. Zt contains planning-relevant informa-tion such as goals, verified facts, constraints, and unresolved sub-goals, while Xt contains execution-level traces such as raw tool outputs, browsing logs, retries, formatting artifacts, and failed attempts. In long-horizon tasks, |Xt| typically grows faster than |Zt|, reducing the relative density of planning-relevant information: 

ρt = |Zt||Ct| . (3) We refer to this reduction ascontext dilution. Fig-ure 1 empirically measures this phenomenon by tracking task-critical information across reasoning steps. HyMem aims to update the planner only through distilled typed messages. Let Rt denote the struc-tured return from a lower-level context space. The intended information boundary is: 

C(p) 

> t+1

= U (C(p) 

> t

, R t),I(C(p)

> t+1

; Xt | Rt) ≈ 0.

(4) 

U (·) is the planner-state update function, and 

I(A; B | C) denotes conditional mutual informa-tion. Eq. 4 is not optimized as a differentiable objective. It is enforced by the interface design: raw execution traces are kept inside lower-level contexts and only schema-constrained returns are appended to the planner. 

3.2 HyMem Framework 

HyMem contains two context spaces: Planner, Ex-ecutor, and two modules: isolated reasoning mod-ule, and Memory Management module. Only the planner persists across the whole task. Another spaces are instantiated on demand, return a typed message, and discard their private context. 

Planner. The planner maintains the main deci-sion context: 

C(p) 

> t

=  P (p), q, Mepi  

> t

, Mwm  

> t

, Mtool  

> t

, H (p)

> t

,

(5) where Mepi is episode memory, Mwm is work-ing memory, Mtool is compact tool memory, and 

H(p) 

> t

stores only typed returns from previous sub-sessions. The planner emits exactly one action from: 

A = {⟨ TASK ⟩(d), ⟨ISO REASON ⟩(d),

⟨FOLD ⟩, ⟨ANSWER ⟩(ˆ y)}. (6) 

Executor. Given a tool-use directive d, HyMem creates a fresh executor context: 

C(e) 

> t, 0

= ( P (e), d, Mtool  

> t

). (7) The executor performs a bounded tool-call loop and obtains raw observations ot, 1, . . . , o t,k . These observations are not returned directly. HyMem first applies a relevance-conditioned distillation opera-tor: 

˜ot,j = ϕ(ot,j | d), (8) where ϕ removes navigation text, duplicated pas-sages, formatting artifacts, irrelevant snippets, and tool-error boilerplate while preserving named en-tities, dates, numerical values, source identifiers, evidence snippets, and answer candidates. The distilled observations are then synthesized into: 

R(e) 

> t

= ⟨RESULTS ⟩

[findings , evidence , sources ,

status , gaps ]

⟨/RESULTS ⟩.

(9) Only R(e) 

> t

is appended to the planner history. The executor context and raw observations are dis-carded after return. 4Isolated reasoning. For sub-tasks requiring multi-hop analysis, hypothesis checking, or recon-ciliation of conflicting evidence, the planner emits 

⟨ISO REASON ⟩(d). HyMem then creates: 

C(iso)  

> t, 0

=  P (iso) , d, Mepi  

> t

, Mwm  

> t

,

Mtool  

> t

, τ (H(p) 

> t

).

(10) where τ (·) selects the recent planner state needed to ground the sub-task. The isolated session may call the executor for additional evidence, but its intermediate reasoning trace remains private. It returns: 

R(iso)  

> t

= ⟨RETURN ⟩

[conclusion , supporting facts , sources ,

confidence κ, assumptions ]

⟨/RETURN ⟩.

(11) where κ ∈ [0 , 1] is the self-estimated confidence. After return, the isolated context is discarded. 

Structured memories. HyMem maintains three rewritable memories: 

Mt = {M epi  

> t

, Mwm  

> t

, Mtool  

> t

}. (12) Episode memory records completed milestones, verified facts, and important decisions. Working memory records the current objective, unresolved gaps, and next-step plan. Tool memory records effective tool-use patterns, failed queries, and tool-specific caveats. The fold operator rewrites all memories jointly: 

Mt+1 = Φ( H(p) 

> t

, H (e) 

> ≤t

, H (iso)  

> ≤t

, Mt). (13) HyMem uses asymmetric memory injection: 

C(p) ← (Mepi , Mwm , Mtool ),C(iso) ← (Mepi , Mwm , Mtool ),C(e) ← M tool .

(14) The tool memory injected into the planner is a com-pact procedural summary, not raw tool logs. This preserves reusable tool experience while keeping raw execution traces outside the planner. 

3.3 Inference Procedure and Context Boundary 

HyMem wraps a frozen base LLM πθ at inference time. At planner step t:

at ∼ πθ(· | C(p) 

> t

), a t ∈ A . (15) The transition is:                         

> at=⟨TASK ⟩(d)⇒C(p)
> t+1 ←U
> 
> C(p)
> t, R (e)
> t
> 
> ,at=⟨ISO REASON ⟩(d)⇒C(p)
> t+1 ←U
> 
> C(p)
> t, R (iso)
> t
> 
> ,at=⟨FOLD ⟩or Trigger( st)⇒ M t+1 ←Φ( ·),at=⟨ANSWER ⟩(ˆ y)⇒return ˆ y.
> (16)

A fold is invoked when the planner explicitly emits ⟨FOLD ⟩, or when one of the following deter-ministic conditions is met: 

Trigger( st) = [ rctx  

> t

> 0.99] ∨ [nexec  

> t

≥ 5] 

∨ [nfail  

> t

≥ 3] ∨ [nturn  

> t

≥ 8] 

∨ [ntool  

> t

≥ 10] .

(17) Here, rctx  

> t

is planner-context token utilization, 

nexec  

> t

counts executor invocations since the last fold, nfail  

> t

counts consecutive executor failures, 

nturn  

> t

counts planner turns since the last fold, and 

ntool  

> t

counts tool calls since the last fold. The context boundary follows from the transition rules. Raw observations enter only the executor and are deleted after R(e) 

> t

is returned. Intermediate reasoning tokens enter only the isolated reason-ing context and are deleted after R(iso)  

> t

is returned. The planner grows through bounded typed returns and rewritten memories, rather than through the full length of tool traces or sub-task deliberations. Therefore, HyMem does not merely summarize a flat trajectory after it becomes long; it restricts which information can enter the decision context throughout execution. This mechanism underlies the lower context-dilution behavior measured in Figure 1. 

4 Experiments 

Benchmark. We evaluate HyMem using two benchmark datasets including GAIA (Mialon et al., 2024), and Browsecomp-plus (Chen et al., 2025). Browsecomp-plus focuses on reasoning-intensive queries derived from OpenAI’s Browsecomp (Wei et al., 2025) and provides a comprehensive offline corpus to ensure evaluation consistency without real-time web dependency. GAIA is employed to assess the agent’s proficiency in general reasoning, retrieval, and tool utilization. Due to constraints in retrieval API resources and computational time, we randomly sampled 150 questions with a balanced difficulty distribution from Browsecomp-plus (Sun et al., 2025). For GAIA, the evaluation is restricted to text-based queries. 5Backbone Framework GAIA Browsecomp-plus                                                                                                      

> Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Avg. P@1 Easy Medium Hard Avg. P@1
> No Agency
> Qwen3-32B Base 23.8 6.0 5.3 18.9 ----DeepSeek-V4 Base 35.7 27.2 15.8 28.3 14.0 10.0 0.0 8.0
> Agentic Frameworks
> Qwen3-32B ReAct 19.0 10.6 0.0 11.8 70.0 24.0 2.0 32.0 Summary 30.9 21.2 5.3 22.0 20.6 46.0 14.0 2.0 DeepSeek-v4 ReAct 66.6 56.1 36.8 56.6 94.0 62.0 14.0 56.6 Summary 69.1 45.5 31.6 51.2 78.0 42.0 6.0 42.0 ReSum 76.2 54.5 47.4 60.6 78.0 46.0 6.0 43.3 AMEM 61.9 48.5 26.3 49.6 70.0 34.0 6.0 36.7 THREAD 42.9 34.8 26.3 35.4 42.0 30.0 8.0 26.7
> Our Framework
> Qwen3-32B HyMem 45.2 30.3 15.8 33.0 48.0 24.0 4.0 25.3 DeepSeek-V4 HyMem 77.0 65.2 49.1 66.7 90.0 64.0 30.0 61.3

Table 1: Experimental results on GAIA and Browsecomp-plus benchmarks. P@1 denotes Pass@1. The bolded numbers represent the top performers in their respective categories. (1) HyMem improves the reasoning capabilities of different backbone models. (2) HyMem delivers the largest overall performance improvement among the compared agent frameworks. 

Baseline and Implementation. HyMem is com-pared against several representative methodologies: the ReAct framework (Yao et al., 2023), which fa-cilitates explicit reasoning via a continuous reason-act-observe cycle; Summarization-based work-flows (Yu et al., 2025), which condense historical interaction trajectories into information-dense sum-maries to guide subsequent reasoning; ReSum (Wu et al., 2025b), which periodically summarizes long interaction histories into compact reasoning states to support continued long-horizon exploration; A-MEM (Xu et al., 2025b), which constructs an agen-tic memory system by organizing experiences into dynamically linked and evolving memory notes; and THREAD (Schroeder et al., 2025), which de-composes complex tasks through recursive thread spawning, enabling isolated subtask reasoning and subsequent aggregation. We evaluate two back-bone models, Qwen3-32B (Yang et al., 2025a) and DeepSeek-V4 (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025). Unless otherwise specified, the same backbone is used for the compared framework under the same bench-mark setting. Detailed prompts, turn budgets, and hyperparameters are provided in the Appendix A. 

4.1 Results and Analysis 

Table 1 shows that HyMem achieves the strongest overall performance when paired with the stronger DeepSeek-V4 backbone. On GAIA, DeepSeek-V4 with HyMem reaches an average Pass@1 of 66.7, improving over ReAct by 10.1 percentage points and over ReSum by 6.1 percentage points. The gain is consistent across all three GAIA difficulty levels, with the largest margin over ReAct appearing on Level 3 questions. On Browsecomp-plus, HyMem reaches an average Pass@1 of 61.3, outperforming ReAct by 4.7 percentage points and substantially exceeding memory-oriented or modular baselines such as ReSum, A-MEM, and THREAD. The difficulty-wise results further clarify where HyMem is most useful. On Browsecomp-plus with DeepSeek-V4, HyMem is slightly lower than ReAct on easy questions, but improves on medium and hard questions, especially hard ques-tions where Pass@1 increases from 14.0 to 30.0. This pattern is consistent with the design motiva-tion of HyMem: typed context isolation is most beneficial when solving the task requires sustained planning, evidence accumulation, and multi-step verification rather than short tool-use trajectories. The Qwen3-32B results show a more nuanced picture. On GAIA, HyMem improves the average Pass@1 from 11.8 under ReAct and 22.0 under the summarization workflow to 33.0, indicating that context isolation can help a smaller backbone sus-tain reasoning over multi-step tasks. However, on Browsecomp-plus, Qwen3-32B with HyMem does not outperform the ReAct baseline. This suggests that HyMem’s gains depend not only on context structure but also on the underlying model’s ability 6100 200 300 400 500 

> Token consumption (k)
> 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
> Pass@1 (%)
> GAIA BrowseComp+
> HyMem ReSum Thread A-MEM ReAct Summary

(a) Token Consumption vs. Performance 10 1 10 2 

> Number of tool calls (log)
> 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
> Pass@1 (%)
> GAIA BrowseComp+
> HyMem ReSum Thread A-MEM ReAct Summary

(b) Tool Calls vs. Performance 

Figure 3: Resource Consumption and Task Performance across Different Methods. We compare the re-source consumption and task performance of ReAct, ReSum, A-MEM, THREAD, and HyMem on the GAIA and BrowseComp-Plus tasks. HyMem achieves better task performance while maintaining acceptable resource utilization. 0 20 40 60 80 100 

> Task progress (%)
> 10 1
> 10 2
> 10 3
> 10 4
> 10 5
> Context growth from start (tokens, log)
> HyMem-Planner HyMem-Total ReSum A-MEM ReAct

Figure 4: Relationship between Context Changes and Task Progress across Different Methods. We record the relationship between context growth trends and task progress for ReAct, A-MEM, ReSum, and HyMem. HyMem-Total denotes the overall context of HyMem, while HyMem refers to the context of the planner module. 

to follow typed control instructions and produce reliable structured returns. We therefore treat cross-backbone robustness as promising but not uniform across all benchmark settings. 

4.2 Efficiency and Context Behavior 

Figure 3 compares task performance against token consumption and tool-call count. HyMem occu-pies a favorable region of the performance-resource trade-off: it achieves higher task performance than ReAct, ReSum, A-MEM, and THREAD while keeping resource usage within a comparable range. This is important because HyMem introduces addi-tional control structure, including isolated reason-ing and memory folding. The analysis indicates that the performance gain is not simply obtained by unbounded context growth or excessive tool use; rather, structured context isolation directs addi-tional computation toward task-relevant reasoning and evidence synthesis. Figure 4 shows that HyMem’s advantage lies in how context is allocated rather than in reduc-ing total context usage. HyMem-Total continues to grow as the Executor and Isolated Reasoning modules perform tool interaction and multi-step analysis, whereas the persistent Planner context grows much more slowly. The separation between the two curves indicates that most execution de-tails and intermediate analysis remain within tem-porary contexts, while only structured returns and rewritten memories update the Planner. Compared with methods whose persistent reasoning contexts grow with accumulated interaction traces, HyMem supports extensive exploration while keeping the Planner context focused on task-relevant informa-tion and preventing transient execution details from accumulating throughout the task. 

4.3 Ablation Study 

Table 2 evaluates the contribution of the two main components of HyMem: the Isolated Reasoning Module and Memory Management. Removing 7Framework Browsecomp-plus (DeepSeek-V4) GAIA (Qwen3-32B)                              

> Pass@1 Plan. Conf. Pass@1 Plan. Conf.
> HyMem (Full) 0.6300 12.98 0.77 0.3200 14.20 0.82 w/o Isolated Reasoning 0.5800 (-5.00pp) 10.26 (-2.72) 0.68 (-0.09) 0.1340 (-18.60pp) 11.50 (-2.70) 0.71 (-0.11)
> w/o Memory Management 0.5400 (-9.00pp) 9.68 (-3.30) 0.69 (-0.08) 0.1340 (-18.60pp) 10.12 (-4.08) 0.70 (-0.12)
> Table 2: Ablation study of HyMem. Red values (-) indicate the performance drop compared to the full framework.

isolated reasoning causes the large performance drop, reducing Pass@1 by 5.0 percentage points on Browsecomp-plus and 18.6 percentage points on GAIA. This confirms that isolating deep sub-task reasoning is crucial for long-horizon agent tasks, especially when the main planner would otherwise accumulate long intermediate deliberations. Removing memory management also substan-tially degrades performance, reducing Pass@1 by 9.0 percentage points on Browsecomp-plus and 18.6 percentage points on GAIA. This result shows that typed isolation alone is insufficient: the agent also needs structured memories to preserve mile-stones, current goals, and reusable tool experience across context refreshes. Together, the ablation results support the two-part design of HyMem. Iso-lated reasoning protects the planner from sub-task deliberation noise, while memory management pre-serves task continuity after histories are folded. Finally, the auxiliary metrics in Table 2 help interpret the failure modes. Without isolated rea-soning, Pass@1 decreases on both benchmarks, in-dicating that the agent is less effective at resolving complex subtasks when their analysis is handled di-rectly within the persistent planning context. With-out memory management, confidence also drops, indicating that losing structured task state makes the agent less certain even when it can still execute tools. These trends align with the proposed mecha-nism: HyMem improves long-horizon performance by coordinating where reasoning happens and how task state is retained. 

5 Conclusion 

This paper addresses context dilution in long-horizon LLM agents, where sparse planning-relevant signals are gradually obscured by dense execution traces. We proposed HyMem, a training-free inference-time framework based on typed con-text isolation. By separating planning, tool exe-cution, isolated sub-task reasoning, and memory consolidation into distinct context spaces, HyMem restricts raw observations and intermediate delib-eration traces from directly entering the main plan-ning context. Structured returns and asymmetric memory injection allow the agent to preserve task continuity while keeping the planner focused on verified facts, current goals, and unresolved gaps. Experiments on GAIA and Browsecomp-plus show that HyMem improves long-horizon agent performance most consistently with a stronger instruction-following backbone. With DeepSeek-V4, HyMem achieves the best average Pass@1 on both benchmarks and shows clear gains on harder Browsecomp-plus questions. The resource analy-sis further suggests that these gains are not simply obtained by using more tokens or more tool calls, while the context-growth analysis supports the in-tended mechanism: HyMem allows execution and isolated reasoning contexts to expand without pro-portionally expanding the persistent planner con-text. Ablation results confirm that both isolated reasoning and structured memory management are necessary for the full framework. HyMem also has clear boundaries. Its effective-ness depends on the model’s ability to follow typed control instructions and produce reliable structured returns, and the gains are not uniform across all backbone and benchmark combinations. Future work should study adaptive routing and memory-folding policies, reduce the cost of auxiliary distil-lation, and extend context isolation to interactive settings where user intent may change during multi-turn task execution. 

Limitations 

LLM-based agents are increasingly used for long-horizon tasks that require iterative planning, tool use, and information gathering. However, their per-formance is often limited by context dilution: as interaction histories grow, dense execution traces such as raw tool outputs, retries, and intermedi-ate deliberations can obscure the sparse planning signals needed for global task control. Existing compression and retrieval methods reduce context length, but they usually operate after planning and 8execution information has already been mixed into a flat trajectory. We propose HyMem, a training-free inference-time framework based on typed con-text isolation. HyMem separates planning, tool ex-ecution, isolated sub-task reasoning, and memory consolidation into distinct context spaces, allow-ing only schema-constrained results and structured memories to enter the main planner context. Exper-iments on GAIA and Browsecomp-plus show that HyMem improves performance over ReAct, Re-Sum, and other agent baselines while maintaining an acceptable resource-performance trade-off. 

References 

Zijian Chen, Xueguang Ma, Shengyao Zhuang, Ping Nie, Kai Zou, Andrew Liu, Joshua Green, Kshama Patel, Ruoxi Meng, Mingyi Su, Sahel Shari-fymoghaddam, Yanxi Li, Haoran Hong, Xinyu Shi, Xuye Liu, Nandan Thakur, Crystina Zhang, Luyu Gao, Wenhu Chen, and Jimmy Lin. 2025. Browsecomp-plus: A more fair and transparent eval-uation benchmark of deep-research agent. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.06600 .Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. 2025. Mem0: Building production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term memory. Preprint , arXiv:2504.19413. Sijia Cui, Aiyao He, Shuai Xu, Hongming Zhang, Yanna Wang, Qingyang Zhang, Yajing Wang, and Bo Xu. 2025. Self-guided function calling in large language models via stepwise experience recall. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2025 , pages 10842–10854, Suzhou, China. Association for Computational Linguistics. DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Aoxue Mei, Bangcai Lin, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bingzheng Xu, Bochao Wu, Bowei Zhang, Chaofan Lin, Chen Dong, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi Deng, Chen-hao Xu, Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, and 245 others. 2025. Deepseek-v3.2: Pushing the frontier of open large language models. Preprint ,arXiv:2512.02556. Google. 2025. Deep research is now available on gemini 2.5 pro experimental. Technical report, Google. Bowen Jin, Hansi Zeng, Zhenrui Yue, Jinsung Yoon, Sercan Arik, Dong Wang, Hamed Zamani, and Jiawei Han. 2025. Search-r1: Training llms to reason and leverage search engines with reinforcement learning. 

Preprint , arXiv:2503.09516. Jun Jin, Hongming Zhang, and Jun Luo. 2022. Build generally reusable agent-environment interaction models. Preprint , arXiv:2211.08234. Quinn Leng, Jacob Portes, Sam Havens, Matei Za-haria, and Michael Carbin. 2024. Long context rag performance of large language models. Preprint ,arXiv:2411.03538. Kuan Li, Zhongwang Zhang, Huifeng Yin, Rui Ye, Yida Zhao, Liwen Zhang, Litu Ou, Dingchu Zhang, Xixi Wu, Jialong Wu, Xinyu Wang, Zile Qiao, Zhen Zhang, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, and Jin-gren Zhou. 2025a. Websailor-v2: Bridging the chasm to proprietary agents via synthetic data and scalable reinforcement learning. Preprint , arXiv:2509.13305. Xiaoxi Li, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yuyao Zhang, Yujia Zhou, Yutao Zhu, Peitian Zhang, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025b. Search-o1: Agentic search-enhanced large reasoning models. CoRR , abs/2501.05366. Xiaoxi Li, Wenxiang Jiao, Jiarui Jin, Guanting Dong, Jiajie Jin, Yinuo Wang, Hao Wang, Yutao Zhu, Ji-Rong Wen, Yuan Lu, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025c. Deepagent: A general reasoning agent with scalable toolsets. Preprint , arXiv:2510.21618. Xiaoxi Li, Jiajie Jin, Guanting Dong, Hongjin Qian, Yu-tao Zhu, Yongkang Wu, Ji-Rong Wen, and Zhicheng Dou. 2025d. Webthinker: Empowering large rea-soning models with deep research capability. CoRR ,abs/2504.21776. Zhiyu Li, Shichao Song, Hanyu Wang, Simin Niu, Ding Chen, Jiawei Yang, Chenyang Xi, Huayi Lai, Ji-hao Zhao, Yezhaohui Wang, Junpeng Ren, Zehao Lin, Jiahao Huo, Tianyi Chen, Kai Chen, Kehang Li, Zhiqiang Yin, Qingchen Yu, Bo Tang, and 3 others. 2025e. Memos: An operating system for memory-augmented generation (mag) in large language mod-els. Preprint , arXiv:2505.22101. Miao Lu, Weiwei Sun, Weihua Du, Zhan Ling, Xuesong Yao, Kang Liu, and Jiecao Chen. 2025. Scaling llm multi-turn rl with end-to-end summarization-based context management. Preprint , arXiv:2510.06727. Lingrui Mei, Jiayu Yao, Yuyao Ge, Yiwei Wang, Bao-long Bi, Yujun Cai, Jiazhi Liu, Mingyu Li, Zhong-Zhi Li, Duzhen Zhang, Chenlin Zhou, Jiayi Mao, Tianze Xia, Jiafeng Guo, and Shenghua Liu. 2025. A sur-vey of context engineering for large language models. 

Preprint , arXiv:2507.13334. Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. 2024. GAIA: a benchmark for general AI assistants. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representa-tions .OpenAI. 2025. Deep research system card. Technical report, OpenAI. Zile Qiao, Guoxin Chen, Xuanzhong Chen, Donglei Yu, Wenbiao Yin, Xinyu Wang, Zhen Zhang, Baixuan Li, Huifeng Yin, Kuan Li, Rui Min, Minpeng Liao, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, and Jingren Zhou. 2025. Webresearcher: Unleashing unbounded reasoning capability in long-horizon agents. Preprint ,arXiv:2509.13309. 

9Yujia Qin, Yining Ye, Junjie Fang, Haoming Wang, Shihao Liang, Shizuo Tian, Junda Zhang, Jiahao Li, Yunxin Li, Shijue Huang, and 1 others. 2025. Ui-tars: Pioneering automated gui interaction with native agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.12326 .Philip Schroeder, Nathaniel W. Morgan, Hongyin Luo, and James R. Glass. 2025. THREAD: Thinking deeper with recursive spawning. In Proceedings of the 2025 Conference of the Nations of the Americas Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics: Human Language Technologies (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 8418–8442, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Association for Computational Linguistics. Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Re-flexion: language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Process-ing Systems , volume 36, pages 8634–8652. Curran Associates, Inc. Weiwei Sun, Miao Lu, Zhan Ling, Kang Liu, Xuesong Yao, Yiming Yang, and Jiecao Chen. 2025. Scaling long-horizon llm agent via context-folding. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.11967. Xiangru Tang, Tianrui Qin, Tianhao Peng, Ziyang Zhou, Daniel Shao, Tingting Du, Xinming Wei, Peng Xia, Fang Wu, He Zhu, Ge Zhang, Jiaheng Liu, Xingyao Wang, Sirui Hong, Chenglin Wu, Hao Cheng, Chi Wang, and Wangchunshu Zhou. 2025. Agent kb: Leveraging cross-domain experience for agentic prob-lem solving. Preprint , arXiv:2507.06229. Gemini Team. 2025. Gemini 2.5: Pushing the fron-tier with advanced reasoning, multimodality, long context, and next generation agentic capabilities. 

Preprint , arXiv:2507.06261. Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang, Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei, and Ji-Rong Wen. 2023a. A survey on large lan-guage model based autonomous agents. Preprint ,arXiv:2308.11432. Lei Wang, Wanyu Xu, Yihuai Lan, Zhiqiang Hu, Yunshi Lan, Roy Ka-Wei Lee, and Ee-Peng Lim. 2023b. Plan-and-solve prompting: Improving zero-shot chain-of-thought reasoning by large language models. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 2609–2634, Toronto, Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics. Yu Wang, Ryuichi Takanobu, Zhiqi Liang, Yuzhen Mao, Yuanzhe Hu, Julian McAuley, and Xiaojian Wu. 2025. Mem-α: Learning memory construction via rein-forcement learning. Preprint , arXiv:2509.25911. Jason Wei, Zhiqing Sun, Spencer Papay, Scott McK-inney, Jeffrey Han, Isa Fulford, Hyung Won Chung, Alex Tachard Passos, William Fedus, and Amelia Glaese. 2025. Browsecomp: A simple yet chal-lenging benchmark for browsing agents. Preprint ,arXiv:2504.12516. Jialong Wu, Baixuan Li, Runnan Fang, Wenbiao Yin, Liwen Zhang, Zhengwei Tao, Dingchu Zhang, Zekun Xi, Gang Fu, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, and Jingren Zhou. 2025a. Webdancer: Towards au-tonomous information seeking agency. Preprint ,arXiv:2505.22648. Xixi Wu, Kuan Li, Yida Zhao, Liwen Zhang, Litu Ou, Huifeng Yin, Zhongwang Zhang, Xinmiao Yu, Dingchu Zhang, Yong Jiang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, Minhao Cheng, Shuai Wang, Hong Cheng, and Jingren Zhou. 2025b. Resum: Unlocking long-horizon search intelligence via context summariza-tion. Preprint , arXiv:2509.13313. Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Jun-tao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025a. A-mem: Agentic memory for llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.12110 .Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Juntao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025b. A-mem: Agentic memory for llm agents. Preprint , arXiv:2502.12110. Sikuan Yan, Xiufeng Yang, Zuchao Huang, Ercong Nie, Zifeng Ding, Zonggen Li, Xiaowen Ma, Kris-tian Kersting, Jeff Z. Pan, Hinrich Schütze, Volker Tresp, and Yunpu Ma. 2025. Memory-r1: Enhanc-ing large language model agents to manage and uti-lize memories via reinforcement learning. Preprint ,arXiv:2508.19828. An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao, Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Day-iheng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu, Hao Ge, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, and 41 others. 2025a. Qwen3 technical report. Preprint ,arXiv:2505.09388. Cheng Yang, Xuemeng Yang, Licheng Wen, Daocheng Fu, Jianbiao Mei, Rong Wu, Pinlong Cai, Yufan Shen, Nianchen Deng, Botian Shi, Yu Qiao, and Haifeng Li. 2025b. Learning on the job: An experience-driven self-evolving agent for long-horizon tasks. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.08002. Hongkang Yang, Zehao Lin, Wenjin Wang, Hao Wu, Zhiyu Li, Bo Tang, Wenqiang Wei, Jinbo Wang, Zeyun Tang, Shichao Song, Chenyang Xi, Yu Yu, Kai Chen, Feiyu Xiong, Linpeng Tang, and Weinan E. 2024. Memory 3: Language modeling with explicit memory. Journal of Machine Learning ,3(3):300–346. Wei Yang, Jinwei Xiao, Hongming Zhang, Qingyang Zhang, Yanna Wang, and Bo Xu. 2026. Coarse-to-fine grounded memory for llm agent planning. 

Preprint , arXiv:2508.15305. Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) .

10 Rui Ye, Zhongwang Zhang, Kuan Li, Huifeng Yin, Zhengwei Tao, Yida Zhao, Liangcai Su, Liwen Zhang, Zile Qiao, Xinyu Wang, Pengjun Xie, Fei Huang, Siheng Chen, Jingren Zhou, and Yong Jiang. 2025. Agentfold: Long-horizon web agents with proactive context management. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.24699. Hongli Yu, Tinghong Chen, Jiangtao Feng, Jiangjie Chen, Weinan Dai, Qiying Yu, Ya-Qin Zhang, Wei-Ying Ma, Jingjing Liu, Mingxuan Wang, and Hao Zhou. 2025. Memagent: Reshaping long-context llm with multi-conv rl-based memory agent. Preprint ,arXiv:2507.02259. Guibin Zhang, Muxin Fu, and Shuicheng Yan. 2025. Memgen: Weaving generative latent memory for self-evolving agents. Preprint , arXiv:2509.24704. Hongming Zhang, Ke Sun, bo xu, Linglong Kong, and Martin Müller. 2024. A distance-based anomaly de-tection framework for deep reinforcement learning.          

> Transactions on Machine Learning Research .Hongming Zhang, Chenjun Xiao, Han Wang, Jun Jin, bo xu, and Martin Müller. 2023. Replay memory as an empirical MDP: Combining conservative es-timation with experience replay. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representa-tions .Bingxi Zhao, Lin Geng Foo, Ping Hu, Christian Theobalt, Hossein Rahmani, and Jun Liu. 2025. Llm-based agentic reasoning frameworks: A survey from methods to scenarios. Preprint , arXiv:2508.17692. Jun Zhao, Can Zu, Hao Xu, Yi Lu, Wei He, Yiwen Ding, Tao Gui, Qi Zhang, and Xuanjing Huang. 2024. Longagent: Scaling language models to 128k context through multi-agent collaboration. Preprint ,arXiv:2402.11550. Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, Uri Alon, and 1 others. 2023. We-barena: A realistic web environment for building au-tonomous agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.13854 .Zijian Zhou, Ao Qu, Zhaoxuan Wu, Sunghwan Kim, Alok Prakash, Daniela Rus, Jinhua Zhao, Bryan Kian Hsiang Low, and Paul Pu Liang. 2025. Mem1: Learning to synergize memory and reasoning for effi-cient long-horizon agents.

A Experiment setup 

A.1 Benchmarks and Data Selection 

For the primary evaluation, we utilized a curated subset of 150 tasks from the BrowseComp-Plus benchmark, maintaining a balanced 1:1:1 ratio across easy, medium, and hard difficulty levels. For the GAIA benchmark, we focused on the validation set (165 tasks), specifically filtering for and evalu-ating all text-only instances. In ablation studies, we maintained the same 150 tasks for BrowseComp-Plus and the text-only GAIA subset for testing. All experimental results are reported as the mean value derived from at least three independent trials to ensure statistical reliability and consistency. 

A.2 Model Configurations & Hyperparameters 

The agent frameworks were evaluated using Qwen3-32B and DeepSeek-V4 as the primary back-bone models. To ensure procedural consistency and experimental stability, all auxiliary language mod-eling tasks across all frameworks were uniformly handled by DeepSeek-V4. To regulate task progression and optimize com-putational efficiency, the HyMem framework em-ploys a specific set of hyperparameter constraints: • Planner_turns=12 : The maximum number of interaction turns permitted within the plan-ner Layer for high-level strategic planning. • execute_turns=10 : The maximum allow-able turns for the Actor Layer during discrete task execution and tool manipulation. • max_iso_reasoning=5 : The upper limit on the total number of isolated reasoning ses-sions invoked throughout the duration of a task. • max_iso_reasoning_turn=3 : The maxi-mum number of reasoning steps allowed within each individual isolated reasoning ses-sion .This configuration was selected to ensure the agent has sufficient latitude for environmental explo-ration and complex decision-making while prevent-ing excessive task duration or inefficient resource consumption. We compared HyMem against two standard baselines. ReAct maximum turn budget was set to 100. Summarization-based Agent: When the context length reached a predefined threshold, the agent performed recursive summarization by distilling the most recent three interaction turns and concatenating them with the preceding history. This baseline was also capped at 100 turns. 

A.3 Context Analysis 

To evaluate global context management efficiency, we collected historical trajectories from identical tasks for both HyMem, ReAct, ReSum and A-MEM. Figure 4 plots task progress on the horizon-tal axis and context volume on the vertical axis. To 11 visualize the aggregate effect, we concatenated the context-change data from all evaluated tasks into a continuous curve, providing a holistic compari-son of how each framework manages information density over time. 

B Case Study 

To demonstrate the effectiveness of the HyMem framework in leveraging hierarchical isolation for context management to enhance reasoning capa-bilities in complex, long-horizon tasks, Table 3 provides a detailed case study. This instance illus-trates how the Planner and Executor layers utilize architectural decoupling to filter redundant informa-tion while facilitating the exchange of high-value strategic signals. Furthermore, it highlights how the isolated reasoning module and memory man-agement mechanism synergistically enhance ex-ploratory steps and distill essential information to maintain reasoning integrity, ultimately enabling the resolution of intricate multi-hop tasks. For the sake of clarity, the content in the table has been selectively curated and condensed to emphasize the specific roles of these core components and pro-vide a transparent illustration of the framework’s operational mechanics. 

C Prompt Engineering 

The primary prompt templates for the HyMem framework are detailed in Tables 4 – 7, represent-ing the Planner Layer, Executor Layer, isolated reasoning sessions, and memory management com-ponents, respectively (Sun et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025e). 

User Query: Born in 1970s, 3x World Half-Marathon champ... retired 2021. Goal: Date (DD/M-M/YYYY) of 10,000m PB? 

Turn 1: Entity Identification 

<think> Break down constraints: "Born 1970s", "3x Champion". First, identify the athlete.(. . . ) </think> <task> Search "three-time World Half-Marathon champion born 1970s" </task> <result> Target matches Tegla Loroupe (Kenyan). Born May 9, 1973. Won titles 1997, 1998, 1999. (...) </result> 

Turn 2-4: Constraint Verification 

<think> Candidate found. Before searching for PB, ver-ify detailed clues (weight, UN honor, retirement) in par-allel. </think> <isoReason> Verify: (1) First win age 21 (NYC Marathon ’94?); (2) UN Person of Year; (3) Weight 40kg. 

</isoReason> <result> [Success] Confirmed: Won NYC Marathon at 21; UN Person of Year (Kenya, 2016); Weight approx 40kg. </result> 

Turn 5: Attribute Retrieval 

<think> Identity verified. Now search specifically for the 10,000m personal best date. </think> <task> Search "Tegla Loroupe 10,000 meters per-sonal best date" </task> <result> Found PB time: 

30:32.03 . [Failure] Specific date missing in snippets. Source only lists time. </result> 

Turn 6: Refinement Strategy 

<think> Direct search for date failed. Strategy shift: Search using the exact time "30:32.03" to find the spe-cific event record. </think> <task> Search "Tegla Loroupe 30:32.03 10,000m" 

</task> <result> Event Identified: 1999 World Championships (Sevilla) . Date confirmed: 26 August 1999 . </result> 

á Memory Compression : Detailed traces (Turns 1-6) folded into Assignment, Moving & Tool Memory .Updated Memory: "Tegla Loroupe, PB 30:32.03 on 26 Aug 1999 (Needs Final Verify)" .

Turn 7-8: Final Answer 

<think> Memory confirms date. Evidence is consistent across sources (Sporting-heroes, Wikipedia). </think> 

Answer: Tegla Loroupe achieved her personal best for the 10,000-meter race on 26 August 1999 .

Table 3: Execution trace of HyMem on a multi-hop reasoning task. The flow demonstrates the interaction between the Planner Layer (reasoning/task generation), Executor Layer (tool use), and the Isolated Reasoning mechanism for verification. Note the Memory Com-pression event which consolidates the context before the final answer. 

12 Prompt 1: HyMem Planner Layer 

You are an expert research planner with memory-augmented reasoning capabilities. Your task is to analyze complex questions and devise effective search strategies. You work with a specialized search actor and can create reasoning isoReasons. Your goal is to reach the best final answer by combining structured analysis, targeted retrieval, delegated reasoning, and memory-guided iteration. 

## Role & Responsibilities 

Your role is to: - Analyze the problem and identify key information needs. - Decompose complex questions into concrete search tasks and reasoning sub-problems. - Assign search tasks to the actor or delegate complex reasoning to isoReasons. - Synthesize results and reason towards the final answer. 

## Workflow 

Follow this process iteratively: 

(a) Problem Analysis : Identify core entities, constraints, and relationships. 

(b) Search Strategy : Design strategies that narrow the search space and reduce ambiguity. 

(c) Task Delegation : You have two delegation options: - Option A – Search Task (for actor) :

<task> [Describe the specific search task for the actor.] </task> 

- Option B – isoReason Task (independent reasoning) :

<isoReason> <description> [3-5 word identifier] </description> <prompt> [Clear reasoning objective] </prompt> </isoReason> 

(d) Result Integration : When the actor or isoReason returns results: - Evaluate whether results satisfy the criteria. - Identify remaining gaps and decide whether to continue exploration or conclude. 

(e) Memory-Guided Reasoning : Use memory from previous sessions to: - Avoid repeating failed strategies. - Build upon prior discoveries. - Maintain reasoning continuity across iterations. 

## Output Format 

Your response must include step-by-step reasoning and a final answer: 

<think> Step-by-step reasoning, including problem analysis, strategy design, delegation choices, and integration decisions. If reasoning becomes too lengthy, output <to_memory> to trigger memory compression. </think> <answer> [Your final answer] </answer> <confidence> [Score 0-1] </confidence> 

## Important Guidelines 

1. Think step-by-step within <think>...</think> tags. 2. Use isoReason when a sub-problem needs independent analysis. 3. Use <task> for straightforward information retrieval. 4. If reasoning becomes too lengthy, output <to_memory> to trigger memory compression. 5. Do not stop reasoning until you can provide a final answer. 6. If stuck, reanalyze the problem from different angles and revise the search plan. 

Table 4: Full prompt template for HyMem Planner Layer. 

13 Prompt 2: HyMem Executor Layer 

You are a searching agent equipped with multiple search tools and file parsing capabilities. Your task is to locate, extract, and synthesize information that satisfies a given search target, using careful query design and iterative reasoning. 

## Role & Objective 

Your goal is to efficiently find accurate and relevant information by: - Designing precise search queries. - Selecting appropriate tools for retrieval or parsing. - Extracting structured evidence from web pages or files. - Synthesizing findings into clear results aligned with the search target. 

## Available Tools 

You may use the following tools at any step: • web_search(keywords) : Perform keyword-based web searches. • web_parse(link, query) : Fetch a specific web page and extract information relevant to a query. • batch_search_and_filter(keyword) : Run integrated searches with built-in filtering. • parse_file(file_path) : Parse and extract text from files (PDF, CSV, XLSX, DOCX, TXT, HTML). 

## Workflow 

Follow this structured process: 

(a) Target Analysis : Clearly understand the search target and define information requirements. 

(b) Query Design : Craft focused keywords; avoid overly broad searches. 

(c) Tool Selection : Choose the most suitable tool for each subtask (web search, page parsing, or file parsing). 

(d) Iterative Exploration : Refine queries or parse deeper sources based on intermediate findings. 

(e) Result Synthesis : Aggregate extracted evidence into concise, relevant findings. 

## Example Usage 

<code> # Web search result = await web_search("machine learning papers 2023") for item in result["tool_result"]["organic"][:5]: print(f"- {item['title']}: {item['snippet'][:100]}") # File parsing file_result = await parse_file("/path/to/document.pdf") content = file_result["tool_result"]["content"] print(f"File content: {content[:500]}") </code> 

## Output Format Your response must include reasoning and final findings: 

<think> Step-by-step reasoning about query selection, tool usage, evidence evaluation, and refinement decisions. </think> <results> [Structured list or summary of findings that satisfy the search target.] </results> 

## Guidelines 

1. Always reason explicitly within <think>...</think> tags. 2. Avoid unnecessary or overly broad searches. 3. Use web_parse for detailed extraction from promising sources. 4. Use parse_file when handling provided documents. 5. Iterate until the search target is sufficiently satisfied, then report results clearly. 

Table 5: Full prompt template for HyMem Executor Layer. 

14 Prompt 3: HyMem Isolated Reasoning Module 

You are a reasoning branch of the main planner. You inherit the full context and memory from MAIN . Your role is to focus exclusively on the assigned reasoning task, execute systematic analysis, optionally gather information, and return immediately after completing the objective. You must not perform any actions beyond the specified scope. 

## Role & Scope 

Your responsibilities are strictly limited to: - Concentrating on the assigned reasoning objective only. - Applying structured, step-by-step analysis. - Returning comprehensive findings to MAIN without attempting to solve the overall problem. 

## Critical Instructions 

You must follow these rules precisely: 1. Understand the Task : Carefully read and internalize the assigned objective. 2. Execute Analysis :• Perform step-by-step reasoning within <think>...</think> tags. • Use <task>...</task> to delegate searches to the executor if external information is required. • Analyze all evidence systematically and critically. 3. Return Findings : Once the objective is complete, immediately report results using the required return format. 

## Return Format Requirements 

Because your internal reasoning is invisible to MAIN , your return must be explicit, structured, and self-contained. Include all of the following components: • CONCLUSION : A direct answer to the assigned question, with concise justification. • KEY EVIDENCE : Supporting facts, observations, or data points (include sources or doc IDs if available). • CONFIDENCE : Your confidence in the conclusion (scale 0–1). • NOTES : Caveats, limitations, assumptions, or recommendations for MAIN .

## Operational Constraint 

- Focus exclusively on the assigned task. - Do NOT provide a final answer to the main problem. - Do NOT perform actions outside your designated reasoning scope. 

## Output Format 

When you have completed your assigned reasoning task, wrap everything strictly in the following structure: 

<think> Step-by-step reasoning specific to the assigned task. </think> <return> CONCLUSION: ... KEY EVIDENCE: ... CONFIDENCE: ... NOTES: ... </return> 

Table 6: Full prompt template for the HyMem Isolated Reasoning Module, responsible for recursive sub-problem decomposition and independent analysis. 

15 Prompt 4: HyMem Memory Management Module 

You are a memory management assistant responsible for compressing, structuring, and recording different forms of agent memory. Your objective is to distill complex interaction histories into concise, machine-readable memory representations that support long-term reasoning, short-term planning, and tool-use optimization. 

## Memory Modules Overview 

You operate three distinct memory modules, each with a clearly defined role, input scope, and output schema. You must strictly follow the instructions for each module and output only the specified JSON format. 

## Module 1: episode Memory Role : You are a memory compression assistant. Summarize the key events in the planner’s reasoning process. 

Task : {question} 

Inputs : {planner_history} , {executor_summary} 

Instructions :1. Identify major milestones, strategic decisions, and key discoveries. 2. Extract only critical events that inform long-term progress. 3. Output only the JSON format specified below. 

Output Schema (JSON) 

{"task_description": "Summary of the task and overall goals", "key_events": [ { "step": "N", "description": "What was done", "outcome": "learned" } ], "current_progress": "Summary of progress and remaining work" }

## Module 2: working Memory Role : You are a working memory manager. Create a snapshot of the current research state. 

Inputs : {recent_history} , {hypothesis_section} 

Instructions :1. Extract only immediate goals, current challenges, and planned next steps. 2. Focus on actionable information and ignore completed work. 3. Output only the JSON format specified below. 

Output Schema (JSON) 

{"immediate_goal": "What the planner is currently determining", "current_challenges": "Main obstacles or gaps in information", "active_hypotheses": ["hypothesis1", "hypothesis2"], "next_actions": [ { "type": "search", "description": "Action" } ]}

## Module 3: Tool Memory Role : You are a tool experience recorder. Synthesize tool usage patterns across interactions. 

Input : {history_str} 

Instructions :1. Analyze which tool calls succeeded versus failed. 2. Identify effective search strategies and parameter patterns. 3. Output only the JSON format specified below. 

Output Schema (JSON) 

{"tools_used": [ {"tool_name": "str", "call_count": N, "effective_queries": [] }], "derived_rules": ["Rule learned from experience"], "useful_sources": ["URLs or docids"] }

## Global Constraints 

• Do not include any text outside the required JSON schemas. • Do not mix content across memory modules. • Ensure outputs are concise, structured, and suitable for long-term agent memory storage. 

Table 7: The suite of prompts used in the Memory Management Module, including episode memory, working memory, and Tool memory. 

16