Title: Not Worth Another Token: Marginal Value Estimation for Efficient Deep Research Agents

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.08389v1

Published Time: Tue, 11 Aug 2026 01:00:11 GMT

Number of Pages: 28

Markdown Content:
## Not Worth Another Token: Marginal Value Estimation for Efficient Deep Research Agents 

Harshitha Kolukuluru 1, Reshma Ashok 1, Kirat Arora 1

Evan William Ciccarelli 1, Nischal Ashok Kumar 1, Lunyiu Nie 2

Franck Dernoncourt 3, Samyadeep Basu 3, Ryan A. Rossi 3, Nedim Lipka 31University of Massachusetts Amherst 

> 2

The University of Texas at Austin 

> 3

Adobe Research 

hkolukuluru@umass.edu, lipka@adobe.com 

Abstract 

Long-horizon research agents solve open-ended tasks through iterative retrieval, aggrega-tion, and synthesis, but context grows rapidly while the marginal value of additional evidence often declines. This leads to unnecessary token cost, higher latency, and noisier inputs for final report generation. We study marginal value estimation for context management in deep re-search agents and present the first systematic stage-aware comparison of pruning strategies across the pipeline. We evaluate lightweight heuristic criteria and a learned value model at pre-retrieval, post-retrieval, and pre-synthesis stages. Our results show that pruning effective-ness depends more on where pruning is applied than on the specific scoring rule: early prun-ing yields the largest end-to-end savings, while later pruning mainly refines the final synthesis context. Lightweight heuristics reduce token usage by up to 73% with little quality degrada-tion, learned pruning remains competitive on selected trade-offs, and no single method domi-nates across quality, efficiency, and faithfulness. These findings provide practical guidance for designing efficient long-horizon agentic sys-tems. 

1 Introduction 

Long-horizon retrieval agents answer complex, open-ended queries through iterative retrieval, rea-soning, and synthesis (Yao et al., 2023b,a; Nie et al., 2026). As these systems operate over multiple steps, accumulated context grows rapidly while the marginal value of each additional retrieval often de-clines: early steps surface core facts, whereas later ones add redundant or weakly informative content (Liu et al., 2024; Jiang et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2023), increasing token cost, latency, and noise in the final synthesis context. A natural remedy is to prune low-value candi-dates by estimating their marginal value —how much new, useful information each contributes beyond what is already collected. Existing deep-research pipelines often rely on LLM prompting for these decisions, incurring inference overhead and inconsistent behavior (Nie et al., 2026). Yet there is limited empirical understanding of which pipeline stages benefit most from pruning, which strate-gies work best at each stage, and under which objectives .We address this through a stage-aware analy-sis of marginal-value-based pruning in deep re-search pipelines (Figure 1), where a system decom-poses a query into subqueries, accumulates context across retrieval steps, and synthesizes a long-form report. We identify three intervention points: Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , and Pre-Synthesis , giving rise to one-, two-, and three-stage configurations, and compare heuristic, learned, and LLM-based strategies across all configurations under a shared evaluation setup (Sections 3-5). Stage placement is often more consequential than the specific scoring rule. Post-Retrieval MMR reduces token cost from 375.4k to 114.6k and ex-plored nodes from 29.0 to 8.84 with modest quality loss; Pre-Synthesis pruning is generally too late to recover upstream costs but can improve report qual-ity. Two-stage pruning yields the strongest quality-efficiency trade-offs; three-stage MMR achieves 73.3% token reduction. No single strategy dom-inates: relevance–redundancy heuristics excel at early cost control, while richer methods are more competitive when targeting report quality or source grounding. The main contributions of this work are: • We formulate marginal value estimation as a stage-aware pruning problem for deep research pipelines, covering three intervention points: Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , and Pre-Synthesis .• We provide a controlled empirical comparison of heuristic, learned, and LLM-based pruning strategies across one, two, and three-stage con-figurations under a shared evaluation setup. 1arXiv:2608.08389v1 [cs.AI] 9 Aug 2026 • We identify cross-stage findings about where pruning is most effective, which strategies pro-vide the best quality-cost trade-offs, and where report quality, source grounding, and cost reduc-tion diverge. 

2 Related Work 

Prior work on long-horizon retrieval agents studies how language models can decompose tasks, re-trieve iteratively, and reason over multi-step search trajectories. Tree of Thoughts (Yao et al., 2023a) and ReAct (Yao et al., 2023b) introduced branching and tool-augmented reasoning, while ParallelRe-search (Nie et al., 2026) extends this direction to deep research through tree-structured query decom-position and parallel exploration. These systems improve multi-step retrieval and coverage, but pri-marily focus on how to explore rather than how to control the growth of accumulated context. A separate line of work studies context pruning, compression, and prompt-efficiency methods for long-context language models. Lost in the Middle (Liu et al., 2024) shows that models struggle to use relevant information in long prompts, motivating stronger context management. Selective Context (Li, 2023), DYCP (Choi et al., 2026), LLMLingua and LongLLMLingua (Jiang et al., 2023, 2024), and RECOMP (Xu et al., 2023) reduce prompt length or compress retrieved evidence, typically at or near the final model input. Related work on agent orchestration and adaptive control studies how multi-step pipelines should schedule actions, react to intermediate signals, or terminate search (Mazzolenis and Zhang, 2025; Laju et al., 2026; Pagonas et al., 2025; Shinn et al., 2023; Li et al., 2025). Our focus is complementary: we study marginal-value-based pruning as a stage-aware con-text management problem, and compare pruning strategies across Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , and 

Pre-Synthesis under a shared evaluation setup. 

3 Problem Formulation 

3.1 Deep Research Pipeline with Pruning 

We consider long-horizon retrieval agents that an-swer complex queries through iterative decomposi-tion, retrieval, aggregation, and synthesis, instanti-ated here as a tree-structured deep research work-flow (Nie et al., 2026) (Figure 1). Given query Q, the system decomposes Q into subqueries S. At step t, it selects st ∈ S , retrieves context items Cst , and merges retained evidence into accumulated context Ct. Retrieved findings may spawn additional subqueries, extending S dy-namically. The process terminates when S is ex-hausted or a stopping criterion is met at step T ,after which the accumulated context is passed to synthesis. 

Objective. Let R(CT , Q ) denote report quality and Cost( CT ) operational cost (token usage, re-trieval calls, latency). In the unpruned setting, evi-dence is added unconditionally: 

Ct+1 = Ct ∪ Cst .

Since not all retrieved content contributes equally, we seek a policy that maximizes quality subject to a cost budget B:

max   

> CT⊆S
> tCst

R(CT , Q ) s.t. Cost( CT ) ≤ B, 

or equivalently, via Lagrangian relaxation, 

max 

> CT

R(CT , Q ) − η Cost( CT ),

where η ≥ 0 selects an operating point on the quality-efficiency frontier. (We use η to avoid over-loading λ, which later denotes the MMR trade-off parameter.) Joint optimization over all subsets is intractable, so we decompose the problem into local pruning decisions at three intervention points: • Pre-Retrieval. A candidate subquery st ∈ S is scored by predicted marginal value; low-value subqueries are filtered before incurring retrieval cost. • Post-Retrieval. Each retrieved item c ∈ Cst is evaluated against Ct; low-value items are dis-carded before influencing further branch expan-sion. • Pre-Synthesis. The final context CT is pruned to retain only high-value evidence before report generation. 

Stage combinations. A one-stage configuration prunes at exactly one point ( Post-Retrieval or Pre-Synthesis ); a two-stage configuration combines 

Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis ; a three-stage con-figuration prunes at all three points. We exclude 

Pre-Retrieval -only and other partial Pre-Retrieval 

combinations from the one- and two-stage analy-ses: Pre-Retrieval decisions are necessarily more predictive and error-sensitive than later-stage de-cisions conditioned on retrieved context. This de-composition lets us isolate whether gains arise from reducing search expansion, compressing the final synthesis context, or both. 2User Query 

→

> Subquery q 2
> Subquery q 3
> Subquery q 4
> Subquery q 1
> Pre-Retrieval Pruning
> (Filter Subqueries)
> 1. Planning
> (Decomposition)

→   

> Subquery 1
> →→
> Subquery 2
> →→
> Subquery 3
> →→
> Post-Retrieval Pruning
> (per subquery)
> Post-Retrieval Pruning
> (per subquery)
> Post-Retrieval Pruning
> (per subquery)
> High value Findings
> (per subquery)
> High value Findings
> (per subquery)
> High value Findings
> (per subquery)
> →
> →
> →
> →
> →
> →
> 2. Retrieval and Expansion
> (Iterative Loop)

→

> Corpus
> 3. Context Aggregation
> (Decomposition)
> Accumulate Findings
> (from all iteration)
> Pre-Synthesis Pruning
> (Filter Final Context))
> →
> Final Accumulated Context
> (High Value Only)

→

> 4. Synthesis
> Synthesis Node
> (LLM Writer)
> →
> FInal Report
> (Structured Report with Citations)
> Generate new subqueries based on findings and context

Figure 1: Overview of the deep research pipeline. Given a user query, the system proceeds through four stages: (1) planning via query decomposition, (2) retrieval and branch expansion, (3) context aggregation, and (4) final report synthesis. We study pruning at three intervention points: Pre-Retrieval , which filters candidate subqueries before search; Post-Retrieval , which filters retrieved context during branch expansion; and Pre-Synthesis , which compresses the accumulated context before report generation. 

3.2 Marginal Value Estimation as a Decision Problem 

At each pruning point, the system decides whether candidate x contributes sufficient marginal value to retain, given query Q and accumulated context 

Ct: at Pre-Retrieval , x is a subquery s ∈ S ; at 

Post-Retrieval and Pre-Synthesis , x is a context item c. We formalize this through a unified scor-ing function V(x | Ct, Q ), retaining x if its score exceeds a stage-specific threshold ( τpre , τpost , or 

τsyn ). Because relevance, novelty, diversity, and coverage may matter differently at different stages, selecting the right instantiation of V motivates the cross-stage comparison in Section 5. Algorithm 1 shows the full pipeline. 

4 Motivating Analysis 

The unpruned pipeline is expensive by design: it explores 29.0 nodes, consumes 375.4k tokens, and requires 3422.6s per report (Table 1). A key source of inefficiency is that low-value context survives until late in the pipeline. The unpruned pipeline’s built-in pre-synthesis trimming reduces accumu-lated context from 66.10 to 44.08 items ( 33.3% 

fewer items; 34.06% fewer tokens), meaning sub-stantial retrieved material is discarded only after most retrieval and processing cost has been paid. Since token cost is dominated by retrieval and re-sult processing rather than planning or query gen-eration, late trimming compresses the synthesis prompt but cannot recover earlier search costs. This 

Algorithm 1 Deep Research with Context Pruning 

Require: Query Q; thresholds τpre , τ post , τ syn 

1: C0 ← ∅ , S ← Decompose( Q), t ← 1

2: while S̸ = ∅ do 

3: Select and remove subquery st ∈ S 

4: ▷ Pre-retrieval pruning 

5: if V(st | Ct−1, Q ) < τ pre then 

6: Ct ← Ct−1

7: else 

8: Retrieve context items Cst using st

9: ▷ Post-retrieval pruning 

10: Cst ← { c ∈ Cst : V(c | Ct−1, Q ) ≥ τpost }

11: Ct ← Ct−1 ∪ Cst

12: Add new subqueries spawned from Cst to S

13: end if 

14: t ← t + 1 

15: end while 

16: ▷ Pre-synthesis pruning 

17: bCT ← { c ∈ CT : V(c | CT , Q ) ≥ τsyn }

18: Generate final report from bCT

motivates our central question: can low-value con-text be removed earlier, and does intervening at Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , or Pre-Synthesis , mean-ingfully affect quality and cost trade-offs? 

5 Pruning Strategies 

We compare heuristic, lexical, LLM-based, and learned pruning strategies, each instantiating a dif-ferent notion of marginal value under the stage-aware framework of Section 3. Let e(·) ∈ Rd denote the embedding function, and let 

q = e(Q)

be the root-query embedding. Candidate items are 3denoted by x, and retained context by C. When a formula operates in embedding space, we write 

e(x) for the embedding of candidate x and e(c) for the embedding of a retained item c ∈ C. We use cosine similarity 

sim( u, v ) = u⊤v

∥u∥ ∥ v∥

for vector inputs u, v . For methods that require a nonnegative scalar query-relevance weight, we define 

w(x) = max(sim( e(x), q ), 0) .

We use w(x) exclusively for scalar relevance weights. For projection-based methods, PC (·) de-notes orthogonal projection onto the span of {e(c) : 

c ∈ C}. When used in the DPP kernel, we interpret similarity as the inner product of ℓ2-normalized em-beddings, i.e., sim( e(i), e (j)) = ⟨˜e(i), ˜e(j)⟩, so the resulting kernel is a weighted Gram matrix. 

5.1 Compared Strategies 

We compare pruning strategies ranging from lightweight heuristics to LLM-based and learned methods, each instantiating a different notion of marginal value. sec:heur-strat 

Heuristic Strategies 

Heuristic strategies estimate marginal value through fixed scoring functions requiring no train-ing or inference. We define the following heuristic strategies below. 

Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR)(§ B.1): 

MMR balances query relevance against redundancy with respect to already retained context (Carbonell and Goldstein, 2017): 

VMMR (x | C, Q ) = λ sim( e(x), q )

− (1 − λ) max  

> c∈C

sim( e(x), e (c)) ,

where λ ∈ [0 , 1] controls the relevance–novelty trade-off. 

Geometric Residual Novelty (GRN)(§ B.1): 

GRN measures whether a candidate introduces a new semantic direction relative to the retained con-text: 

VGRN (x | C) = ∥e(x) − PC (e(x)) ∥2,

where PC (e(x)) is the projection of e(x) onto the subspace spanned by the retained context embed-dings. 

Centroid Drift (CD)(§ B.1): CD measures whether adding a candidate shifts the semantic cen-ter of the retained context (Radev et al., 2004). Let 

μC = 1

> |C|

P 

> c∈C

e(c). We define 

VCD (x | C) = 1 − sim( μC , μ C∪{ x}).

Larger scores indicate larger semantic drift. Since cosine similarity lies in [−1, 1] , this score lies in 

[0 , 2] , although empirical values are typically much smaller. 

Determinantal Point Processes (DPP)(§ B.1): 

DPPs favor subsets that are both relevant and di-verse (Kulesza and Taskar, 2012).With kernel en-tries 

Lij = w(i) w(j) ⟨˜e(i), ˜e(j)⟩,

where w(i) is the nonnegative query-relevance weight defined above and the gain of adding x is 

VDPP (x | C) = det( LC∪{ x})det( LC ) .

Redundant candidates contribute less additional volume and receive smaller gains. 

Submodular Coverage (SC)(§ B.1): SC mea-sures how much a retained set covers the semantic space of the candidate pool while accounting for token cost (Lin and Bilmes, 2011). With coverage function 

F (C) = X

> j∈P

max 

> i∈C

w(i) sim( e(i), e (j)) 

the token-normalized marginal gain is 

VSC (x | C, Q ) = F (C ∪ { x}) − F (C)cost( x) .

Combined and lexical variants (§B.1). We also study secondary variants that either combine rele-vance, novelty, and coverage into a single score or replace dense semantic similarity with cheaper lex-ical proxies such as TF–IDF cosine similarity and bigram overlap. These variants test whether richer signal integration or lower-cost similarity measures improve the trade-off frontier. We further evaluate a small set of targeted mixed variants ( CD + SC , CD + LLM , and SC + LLM ) to test whether different pruning objectives are com-plementary across stages. These are not intended to exhaust all pairings, but to probe whether novelty-sensitive early pruning combines effectively with coverage-aware or semantic late-stage refinement. 4LLM-based Strategy (§ B.2) 

We evaluate methods in which a language model acts as a pruning judge, predicting whether a can-didate should be retained given the current query, context, and candidate set. This method can capture richer semantic judgments than fixed heuristics, but it also introduces additional inference cost. 

Learned Strategy (§ B.3) 

We also study a learned pre-retrieval controller trained on execution trajectories as an exploratory test of whether a lightweight data-driven proxy can approximate a downstream utility signal. 

6 Experimental Setup 

6.1 Benchmark 

We evaluate pruning strategies on DeepResearch-Gym (Coelho et al., 2025), an open-source evalu-ation sandbox for deep research systems. Its eval-uation protocol is built on 1,000 complex, high-engagement queries from the Researchy Questions 

dataset (Rosset et al., 2024). Because evaluating every configuration on the full benchmark is com-putationally expensive, we report results on a fixed 

sample of 100 queries .

6.2 Pipeline and Baseline 

Our experiments are built on the GPT-Researcher 

framework, which performs multi-step query de-composition, retrieval, aggregation, and report generation. The baseline is the standard GPT-Researcher pipeline without any explicit pruning policy , including the framework’s default late-stage context trimming before synthesis. All pruning variants are implemented on top of the same un-derlying pipeline, and where applicable, we reuse cached subqueries and retrieved evidence across runs, so observed differences in quality, token us-age, node count, and latency are attributable to pruning decisions alone. 

6.3 Compared Configurations 

We compare pruning strategies at three interven-tion points in the pipeline: Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , and Pre-Synthesis . We evaluate one-stage policies, multi-stage combinations, heuristic criteria, LLM-based pruning, and learned pruning under a shared execution framework. Unless other-wise specified, all methods use the same underly-ing generator and report-writing configuration, and differ only in how and where pruning is applied. Unless otherwise noted, the main paper reports one representative operating point per method rather than exhaustively tuning each pruning family to its best possible frontier. Appendix B.7 reports local threshold sweeps for five representative post-retrieval methods and shows that the published set-tings lie within stable sampled operating regions under a 2% quality-degradation criterion. 

6.4 Evaluation Metrics 

We evaluate methods along four dimensions: qual-ity , relevance , faithfulness , and efficiency .• Quality (§ A.2): Measured with a fixed rubric-based LLM judge applied uniformly across all methods. Because absolute rubric scores can shift across judges, we interpret these values pri-marily as relative comparisons under a fixed in-dependent judge . Appendix Table 4 reports a judge-sensitivity analysis. • Relevance (§ A.2): KPR+KPC (Key Point Recall + Key Point Contradiction), measuring coverage of key informational points from ground-truth documents while penalizing conflicting state-ments. • Faithfulness (§ A.2): Citation Recall (Cit.), mea-suring the fraction of report claims grounded in a retrievable source. • Efficiency (§ A.3): Node count (Nodes), total token cost in thousands (Tokens), and wall-clock runtime (Time). All metrics are mean values across 100 reports. Formal definitions are in Appendix A.1. 

7 Results and Discussion 

We next compare pruning strategies under the shared evaluation setup above, varying both the pruning stage and the pruning rule while keep-ing the underlying GPT-Researcher pipeline fixed. This setting isolates the effect of pruning decisions from changes to generation or retrieval. The follow-ing subsections examine in detail which pruning stages are most effective, which heuristics work best at each stage, and how quality, efficiency, rele-vance, and faithfulness trade off across one-, two-, and three-stage settings. 

7.1 One-Stage Pruning: Post-Retrieval vs. Pre-Synthesis Best quality vs. best efficiency. Table 1 shows a sharp contrast between the strongest quality point and the strongest efficiency point. Under the 5Table 1: One-stage pruning results. Full metric break-down appears in the appendix. Tokens are reported in thousands (k). Bold denotes the best value among pruned methods within each stage block.                                                                                                             

> Method Nodes Tokens Time Ov.Quality KPR+KPC Cit.
> Baseline 29.0 375.4 3422.6 57.83 70.23 95.54
> Post-Retrieval Pruning
> MMR (§B.1) 8.84 114.6 1379.8 56.62 63.49 91.70 GRN (§B.1) 13.31 175.7 2087.9 57.02 42.89 94.40 CD (§B.1) 10.47 137.5 1605.7 56.84 41.29 92.48 SC (§B.1) 10.82 141.9 1737.2 55.22 47.94 91.97 DPP (§B.1) 9.88 129.6 1520.6 54.51 43.33 95.62
> Combined (§B.1) 9.00 117.8 1399.5 56.03 64.13 92.59 Hybrid (§B.1) 9.28 121.3 1449.5 57.63 65.23 92.16 LLM (§B.2) 14.90 211.8 2310.7 59.65 49.65 93.54
> Pre-Synthesis Pruning
> MMR (§B.1) 29.0 366.0 4446.9 57.77 65.26 90.41 GRN (§B.1) 29.0 374.1 4493.3 55.98 41.67 90.38 CD (§B.1) 29.0 374.5 4562.4 52.38 43.75 90.19 SC (§B.1) 29.0 384.7 4533.3 53.22 42.09 90.78 DPP (§B.1) 29.0 374.4 4512.4 54.70 54.07 90.24 Combined (§B.1) 29.0 374.5 4408.6 59.38 66.32 93.79 Hybrid (§B.1) 29.0 332.3 3834.1 60.68 65.62 95.07
> LLM (§B.2) 29.0 386.7 4512.0 57.17 44.47 92.43

fixed rubric-based LLM judge used in the main experiments, the highest one-stage quality is Pre-Synthesis Hybrid at 60.68, improving on the base-line (57.83) by +2.85 points. Its efficiency gains are modest, however: token usage falls only to 332.3k and runtime remains high at 3834.1s, con-firming that late pruning can refine the final syn-thesis context but cannot recover most upstream search cost. By contrast, the strongest efficiency point is Post-Retrieval MMR , which reduces token cost to 114.6k, explored nodes to 8.84, and run-time to 1379.8s. Relative to the baseline, this is roughly 69.5% lower token usage and 59.7% lower runtime while retaining 56.62 overall quality, or about 97.9% of baseline quality. This difference is intuitive: MMR is most effective early, where its relevance–redundancy trade-off prevents low-value branch expansion before retrieval and result-processing costs are incurred, whereas Hybrid is more useful as a late-stage quality refinement mech-anism. 

Faithfulness and evidence retention. The best one-stage citation recall among pruned methods is Post-Retrieval DPP at 95.62, whereas Pre-Synthesis Hybrid achieves the highest overall qual-ity. This mismatch illustrates a central trade-off in the paper: stronger final report quality does not nec-essarily imply stronger evidence retention. More importantly, no pruned one-stage method sur-passes the baseline on KPR+KPC , indicating that compression can preserve or improve report quality while still discarding evidence needed for maxi-

Table 2: Two-stage pruning results. The full metric breakdown appears in Appendix Table 5. Tokens are reported in thousands (k). Bold denotes the best value within each subsection among pruned methods. A single method name indicates that the same pruning rule is used at both Post-Retrieval and Pre-Synthesis ; “A + B” indicates method A at Post-Retrieval and method B at 

Pre-Synthesis .                                                                              

> Method Nodes Tokens Time Ov.Quality KPR+KPC Cit.
> Baseline 29.0 375.4 3422.6 57.83 70.23 95.54
> Main heuristic families
> MMR (§B.1) 8.84 114.6 1381.3 56.40 65.16 92.61 GRN (§B.1) 13.2 175.2 2080.2 57.94 64.47 93.06 CD (§B.1) 9.02 138.2 1619.8 57.44 43.23 92.94 SC (§B.1) 10.80 142.1 1776.5 57.00 62.23 94.74
> DPP (§B.1) 9.2 122.8 1462.3 56.73 62.33 93.62 LLM (§B.2) 15.57 226.6 2632.3 58.27 48.61 93.01
> Mixed variants
> Combined (§B.1) 8.98 117.6 1392.2 54.87 64.88 93.03 Hybrid (§B.1) 9.30 121.7 1457.4 56.92 64.25 93.51 CD + SC (§B.1) 10.45 137.5 1599.6 59.47 44.29 89.96 CD + LLM (§B.1) 10.24 136.0 1589.3 58.65 63.40 94.34
> SC + LLM (§B.1) 10.54 139.1 1700.6 58.08 64.54 93.43

mal relevance retention. Among the post-retrieval heuristics, DPP remains more competitive on ci-tation recall because its diversity objective favors retaining a broader evidence set, whereas MMR is more aggressive in removing semantically overlap-ping content and therefore delivers stronger effi-ciency gains. 

7.2 Two-Stage Pruning: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Best quality vs. best efficiency. Table 2 shows that combining early and late pruning yields the strongest practical trade-offs in the study. Under the fixed rubric-based LLM judge used in the main experiments, the highest quality point among the evaluated two-stage variants is CD + SC , which reaches 59.47 overall quality, improving on the baseline by +1.64 points while reducing token cost by 63.4%, runtime by 53.3%, and node count from 29.0 to 10.45. This shows that multi-stage prun-ing can improve report quality while substantially shrinking the search process. The strongest pure ef-ficiency point remains MMR , which reduces token cost further to 114.6k, nodes to 8.84, and runtime to 1381.3s, while reaching 56.40 overall quality. The contrast reflects the underlying objectives: early 

MMR is highly effective at removing redundant branches before they expand, whereas CD + SC 

benefits from a later coverage-aware refinement stage that improves final report quality. 6Table 3: Three-stage pruning results. The full metric breakdown appears in Appendix Table 5. Tokens are reported in thousands (k). Bold denotes the best value within each subsection among pruned methods. A sin-gle method name means the same pruning rule is used at Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , and Pre-Synthesis ; a notation of the form “A + B + C” indicates method A at 

Pre-Retrieval , method B at Post-Retrieval , and method C at Pre-Synthesis .                                                                        

> Method Nodes Tokens Time Ov.Quality KPR+KPC Cit.
> Baseline 29.0 375.4 3422.6 57.83 70.23 95.54
> Main heuristic families
> MMR (§B.1) 7.82 100.1 1157.7 55.90 63.43 91.84 GRN (§B.1) 11.57 150.0 1937.7 56.68 45.13 91.33 CD (§B.1) 9.27 120.6 1669.8 56.00 43.64 93.30 SC (§B.1) 9.35 121.8 1438.9 55.52 65.79 92.03 DPP (§B.1) 8.68 113.3 1626.2 55.41 46.33 95.40
> LLM (§B.2) 10.12 143.6 1574.7 59.53 65.09 93.12
> Mixed variants
> Lexical + CD + SC (§B.1) 9.26 120.1 1375.0 57.81 42.67 93.31 Combined (§B.1) 7.90 102.8 1227.6 55.00 62.50 90.83 Hybrid (§B.1) 8.16 106.3 1282.7 57.10 64.80 93.06 Learned Query + GRN + GRN (§B.3) 10.44 145.7 1744.4 58.13 51.78 95.48

Faithfulness and evidence retention. The two-stage setting makes the trade-off frontier most visible. Among the main heuristic families, 

SC achieves the strongest citation recall (94.74), whereas MMR is strongest on cost and KPR+KPC (65.16) among pruned methods. This suggests that relevance–redundancy control is especially ef-fective for reducing search cost, while coverage-oriented objectives are better suited to retaining a broader evidence set for source grounding. LLM-augmented variants remain quality-competitive, but their extra inference cost reduces their end-to-end efficiency advantage. The strongest quality point, 

CD + SC , also shows that quality and faithfulness can diverge: it improves overall quality, but its cita-tion recall (89.96) is weaker than both the baseline and SC .

7.3 Three-Stage Pruning: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis 

In the three-stage setting, we compare the main heuristic families against a small set of richer or mixed variants that add lexical, learned, or LLM-based pruning components. 

Best quality vs. best efficiency. Table 3 shows that three-stage pruning is most useful when the ob-jective is maximal compression. Among the main heuristic families, MMR is the strongest compres-sion point, reducing token cost to 100.1k, explored nodes to 7.82, and runtime to 1157.7s, or roughly 73.3% lower token usage than the baseline. Its over-all quality (55.90) remains below both the baseline and the strongest quality-oriented variants, indicat-ing that extending relevance–redundancy pruning across all three stages sharpens compression more than it improves end-task quality. 

Faithfulness and evidence retention. Under the fixed rubric-based LLM judge used in the main ex-periments, the highest overall quality in this family is achieved by LLM at 59.53, while Learned Query + GRN attains the strongest citation recall (95.48) and SC the strongest KPR+KPC (65.79) among pruned methods. Adding a third stage therefore does not remove the trade-off between quality, com-pression, and evidence retention; it makes it more explicit. Relative to the strongest two-stage con-figurations, three-stage pruning improves compres-sion more reliably than quality, making the third stage most valuable when aggressive cost reduction is prioritized over maximal end-task quality. 

7.4 Cross-Stage Findings How do pruning objectives differ? Across settings, methods based on explicit relevance– redundancy control, especially MMR , are the strongest compression tools. Their advantage is greatest when applied early, where pruning a redun-dant branch avoids not only final-context growth but also the downstream cost of retrieval, result processing, and recursive expansion. By contrast, coverage-oriented methods such as SC are less aggressive compressors but often stronger on ev-idence retention because they reward keeping a broader set of complementary support rather than eliminating overlap as aggressively as possible. Diversity-oriented methods such as DPP behave similarly, favoring a wider evidence set and there-fore remaining more competitive on citation recall than on pure efficiency. Geometric novelty meth-ods such as GRN preserve novel semantic direc-tions but are less tightly coupled to aggressive cost reduction. Centroid-based methods such as CD 

lie between these extremes: they capture novelty through shifts in the semantic center of the retained context, helping broader contextual refinement, but with a coarser signal than direct relevance– redundancy control and therefore a weaker align-ment with aggressive efficiency gains. 

How do methods change across stages? Hold-ing the pruning rule fixed reveals a second consis-tent pattern. For MMR , moving from one-stage to two-stage leaves the strongest efficiency point essentially unchanged ( 114.6k tokens and 8.84 

nodes in both settings), while three-stage prun-7ing pushes compression further, reducing token cost to 100.1k and nodes to 7.82 , but with weaker overall quality. This suggests that MMR captures most of its benefit once applied at Post-Retrieval ,and that additional stages mainly sharpen compres-sion rather than improve end-task quality. By con-trast, SC benefits less from extra stages on pure efficiency, but remains comparatively stronger on evidence-retention objectives such as citation recall and KPR+KPC. More broadly, additional stages improve cost reduction more reliably than report quality, whereas later-stage refinement is most use-ful when the objective places greater weight on final synthesis quality than on maximal efficiency. 

Cross-benchmark evidence. Although our pri-mary analysis is conducted on DeepResearchGym, supplementary results on DeepResearch Bench (Appendix B.5, Tables 13 and 14) show the same broad efficiency pattern: earlier pruning yields sub-stantially larger token and runtime savings than root-only pruning, and MMR remains one of the strongest compression-oriented heuristics. At the same time, method-level quality rankings are less stable across the two benchmarks (Table 13). We therefore interpret these results as directional sup-port for the stage-ordering conclusion rather than as a full replication of the quality trade-offs ob-served on DeepResearchGym, and note that the two benchmarks use different evaluation protocols and report-quality metrics. 

Which stages and configurations matter most? 

Comparing stages and configurations head-to-head, 

Post-Retrieval pruning delivers the largest effi-ciency gains while remaining relatively close to baseline quality, because it prevents low-value branches from expanding before retrieval and result-processing costs are incurred. By contrast, one-stage Pre-Synthesis pruning gives the strongest quality refinement, but is usually too late to recover most upstream cost. At the configuration level, two-stage pruning offers the strongest practical quality-efficiency trade-off by combining early search con-trol with late refinement. Three-stage pruning pushes compression further, but with smaller re-turns for report quality, making it most useful when the objective is maximal cost reduction rather than maximal end-task quality. 

When do Mixed variant methods help? Mixed variant and later-stage pruning rules become more competitive when the target is final report qual-ity rather than absolute efficiency. Pre-Synthesis Hybrid gives the strongest one-stage quality, and LLM-based variants are often quality-competitive because they can make more flexible semantic de-cisions than fixed heuristics. However, their addi-tional inference cost limits their efficiency advan-tage, making them most attractive when quality is prioritized over absolute cost. 

What the exploratory learned controller sug-gests. The learned pre-retrieval controller serves as a small-scale data-driven alternative to hand-designed marginal-value criteria. In our results, it produces viable operating points in a limited num-ber of settings, especially when predictive query filtering is useful, but it does not provide strong ev-idence of consistent superiority over the strongest heuristic baselines. This is informative in itself: most of the attainable gains in our study come from a well-matched pruning objective and stage place-ment, while the learned component is best viewed as an exploratory proof of concept rather than a mature replacement for simpler heuristics. 

8 Conclusion 

We presented the first systematic stage-aware study of marginal-value-based pruning for long-horizon deep research agents. Across Pre-Retrieval , Post-Retrieval , and Pre-Synthesis , stage placement is often more consequential than the scoring rule: early pruning, especially at Post-Retrieval , yields the largest savings in nodes, tokens, and runtime, whereas later pruning mainly refines the final syn-thesis context. No single strategy dominates across objectives. Under the fixed rubric-based judge used in the main experiments, Pre-Synthesis Hy-brid gives the strongest one-stage quality, CD + SC the strongest observed quality-efficiency trade-off, and three-stage pruning is most useful for maximal compression. Learned pruning remains exploratory; most gains come from careful stage placement and lightweight heuristics. Because re-port quality and evidence retention can diverge un-der pruning, policies should be evaluated jointly in terms of quality, efficiency, relevance, and faith-fulness. Overall, our results support a stage-aware view of pruning and offer practical guidance for efficient long-horizon research agents. 

9 Limitations 

This study has several limitations. First, our em-pirical analysis is conducted within a fixed deep 8research pipeline and benchmark setup, so the exact trade-offs may change under different agent archi-tectures, retrieval systems, or underlying language models. Our conclusions are therefore strongest as a comparative study of pruning strategies within this setting rather than as universal claims about all long-horizon agents. Although supplementary ex-periments on DeepResearch Bench (Appendix B.5, Tables 13 and 14) support the broad efficiency ad-vantage of earlier pruning, method-level quality rankings are less stable across benchmarks, sug-gesting that quality-sensitive conclusions depend more strongly on the evaluation protocol and task formulation than the basic stage-ordering effect. Our quality metric is also judge-dependent. Ap-pendix Table 4 shows that absolute rubric scores can shift substantially across judge choices, even for the same generated reports. We therefore inter-pret quality-sensitive conclusions more cautiously than efficiency results, and treat the reported qual-ity values primarily as relative comparisons under a fixed independent judge rather than as stable ab-solute measurements. Second, several pruning methods require thresh-old or hyperparameter choices, and the best oper-ating point remains task-dependent. Appendix B.7 reports local threshold sweeps for five representa-tive post-retrieval methods and shows that the pub-lished settings lie within stable sampled regions under a 2% quality-degradation criterion. These sweeps suggest that our main conclusions are not driven by isolated brittle thresholds, although finer-grained method ordering may still shift under dif-ferent threshold choices or under exhaustive per-method tuning. Finally, our evaluation metrics do not capture all aspects of utility or reliability. Automatic measures of report quality, relevance, and citation recall only partially reflect factual correctness, completeness of evidence, and usefulness to end users. Our find-ings should therefore be interpreted as a systematic empirical study of pruning trade-offs rather than a complete evaluation of deployment readiness. 

10 Ethics Statement 

Improving the efficiency of long-horizon research agents can reduce computational cost, latency, and environmental burden. However, more efficient systems can also make it easier to scale the pro-duction of misleading or low-quality synthesized content. Pruning introduces an additional risk: imper-fect pruning signals may discard contradictory evi-dence, minority viewpoints, or important caveats while preserving fluent but insufficiently supported summaries. Pruning should therefore not be treated as a substitute for verification. We recommend pairing pruning-based research agents with source transparency, citation auditing, and human over-sight, especially in high-stakes domains such as medicine, law, public policy, and education. Learned pruning models may also inherit biases from the trajectories and evaluation signals used to train them. Their outputs should therefore be un-derstood as objective-driven decisions rather than as ground truth about what evidence is important. 

References           

> Andrei Z. Broder. 1997. On the resemblance and con-tainment of documents. In Compression and Com-plexity of SEQUENCES 1997, Positano, Amalfitan Coast, Salerno, Italy, June 11-13, 1997, Proceedings ,pages 21–29. IEEE. Jaime G. Carbonell and Jade Goldstein. 2017. The use of mmr, diversity-based reranking for reordering documents and producing summaries. SIGIR Forum ,51(2):209–210. Nayoung Choi, Jonathan Zhang, and Jinho D. Choi. 2026. DYCP: dynamic context pruning for long-form dialogue with llms. CoRR , abs/2601.07994. João Coelho, Jingjie Ning, Jingyuan He, Kangrui Mao, Abhijay Paladugu, Pranav Setlur, Jiahe Jin, Jamie Callan, João Magalhães, Bruno Martins, and Chenyan Xiong. 2025. Deepresearchgym: A free, transparent, and reproducible evaluation sandbox for deep research. CoRR , abs/2505.19253. Huiqiang Jiang, Qianhui Wu, Chin-Yew Lin, Yuqing Yang, and Lili Qiu. 2023. Llmlingua: Compressing prompts for accelerated inference of large language models. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-ing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore, December 6-10, 2023 ,pages 13358–13376. Association for Computational Linguistics. Huiqiang Jiang, Qianhui Wu, Xufang Luo, Dongsheng Li, Chin-Yew Lin, Yuqing Yang, and Lili Qiu. 2024. Longllmlingua: Accelerating and enhancing llms in long context scenarios via prompt compression.
> Preprint , arXiv:2310.06839. Alex Kulesza and Ben Taskar. 2012. Determinantal point processes for machine learning. Found. Trends Mach. Learn. , 5(2-3):123–286. Marco Laju, Donghyun Son, Saurabh Agarwal, Nitin Kedia, Myungjin Lee, Jayanth Srinivasa, and Aditya

9Akella. 2026. Nalar: An agent serving framework. 

CoRR , abs/2601.05109. Shiyu Li, Yang Tang, Yifan Wang, Peiming Li, and Xi Chen. 2025. Reseek: A self-correcting framework for search agents with instructive rewards. CoRR ,abs/2510.00568. Yucheng Li. 2023. Unlocking context constraints of llms: Enhancing context efficiency of llms with self-information-based content filtering. CoRR ,abs/2304.12102. Hui Lin and Jeff Bilmes. 2011. A class of submodular functions for document summarization. In Proceed-ings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-nologies , pages 510–520, Portland, Oregon, USA. Association for Computational Linguistics. Nelson F. Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy Liang. 2024. Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts. Trans. Assoc. Comput. Linguistics , 12:157–173. Maria Emilia Mazzolenis and Ruirui Zhang. 2025. Agent WARPP: workflow adherence via runtime par-allel personalization. CoRR , abs/2507.19543. Lunyiu Nie, Nedim Lipka, Ryan A. Rossi, and Swarat Chaudhuri. 2026. Efficient tree-structured deep re-search with adaptive resource allocation. Preprint ,arXiv:2510.05145. Nikos Pagonas, Yeounoh Chung, Kostis Kaffes, and Arvind Krishnamurthy. 2025. Cortex: Workflow-aware resource pooling and scheduling for agentic serving. Preprint , arXiv:2510.14126. Dragomir R. Radev, Hongyan Jing, Magorzata Sty, and Daniel Tam. 2004. Centroid-based summariza-tion of multiple documents. Inf. Process. Manag. ,40(6):919–938. Juan Enrique Ramos. 2003. Using tf-idf to determine word relevance in document queries. Corby Rosset, Ho-Lam Chung, Guanghui Qin, Ethan C. Chau, Zhuo Feng, Ahmed Awadallah, Jennifer Neville, and Nikhil Rao. 2024. Researchy questions: A dataset of multi-perspective, decompositional ques-tions for LLM web agents. CoRR , abs/2402.17896. Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Re-flexion: language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems 36: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2023, NeurIPS 2023, New Orleans, LA, USA, December 10 - 16, 2023 .Joel A. Tropp and Anna C. Gilbert. 2007. Signal recovery from random measurements via orthog-onal matching pursuit. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory ,53(12):4655–4666. Fangyuan Xu, Weijia Shi, and Eunsol Choi. 2023. RECOMP: improving retrieval-augmented lms with compression and selective augmentation. CoRR ,abs/2310.04408. Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik Narasimhan. 2023a. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36: Annual Confer-ence on Neural Information Processing Systems 2023, NeurIPS 2023, New Orleans, LA, USA, December 10 - 16, 2023 .Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R. Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023b. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023, Kigali, Rwanda, May 1-5, 2023 . OpenReview.net. 

A Appendix 

This appendix provides supporting detail for the main paper along three dimensions. First, it defines the reported metrics and derived efficiency quan-tities, including node counts, token accounting, runtime decomposition, and stage-wise pruning effectiveness. Second, it expands the method de-scriptions, giving the mathematical form and stage-specific role of each pruning strategy summarized in the main text. Third, it reports the full compari-son tables and robustness analyses that underlie the compact main-paper results. The purpose of these materials is to make the empirical findings more transparent rather than to introduce new claims. In particular, the appendix tables expose the full metric breakdown behind the stage-aware comparisons in the main paper, clarify where efficiency gains arise within the pipeline, and show how different pruning strategies behave under more detailed accounting than can fit in the main text. 

A.1 Metric Computation Details 

All reported cost, runtime, and pruning metrics are aggregated over the same set of evaluation reports. For any per-report quantity xi measured on report 

i ∈ { 1, . . . , N }, we report the sample mean 

¯x = 1

N

> N

X

> i=1

xi

and, when available, the standard error 

SE( x) = sx

√N , s2 

> x

= 1

N − 1

> N

X

> i=1

(xi − ¯x)2.

10 Unless otherwise stated, tables report values as mean ± standard error. 

A.2 Quality, relevance, and faithfulness: 

The quality dimensions reported in the main com-parison tables, namely Overall, Clarity, Depth, Bal-ance, Breadth, Support, and Insight, are obtained by running the generated reports through the Deep-ResearchGym evaluation pipeline and averaging the resulting scores over reports. The same proce-dure is used for the relevance metric (KPR+KPC) and the faithfulness metric (Citation Recall). These metrics are currently reported as means only. 

A.3 # Nodes: 

For the baseline configuration with breadth 4 and depth 3, the nominal full search tree contains 

1 + 4 + 8 + 16 = 29 

nodes, consisting of one planning node and 28 re-search nodes. We report the node count computed as 

Ncorr  

> i

= 1 + Ri,

where Ri is the number of result-processing calls in report i, and the leading 1 accounts for the planning node. We also report the average number of pruned nodes, denoted ¯P , from the node-level pruning logs. The pruning rate shown in the appendix is then computed from the reported means as 

Pruning Rate = ¯P

¯N corr × 100 .

A.4 Token cost: 

For each report, total token cost is defined as the sum of input and output tokens across all token-tracked pipeline stages: 

Ti = T in  

> i

+ T out  

> i

= X

> ϕ∈Φ

 T in  

> i,ϕ

+ T out 

> i,ϕ

 ,

where Φ includes the logged token phases such as planning, query generation, pre-retrieval pruning (when the pruning method itself invokes an LLM), result processing, embedding, and other tracked model calls. The main efficiency table reports ¯T

as # Tokens. The token-accounting table further decomposes this into average input tokens, average output tokens, and total tokens. 

A.5 Estimated tokens saved by pruning: 

For each pruning stage s in report i, let Cbefore  

> i,s

and 

Cafter  

> i,s

denote the tokenized context size before and after pruning. The estimated tokens saved at that stage are 

∆Ti,s = Cbefore  

> i,s

− Cafter  

> i,s

.

The total estimated tokens saved by pruning in report i are then 

T saved  

> i

= X

> s

∆Ti,s .

A.6 Estimated token reduction: 

The estimated pre-pruning token budget of a method is defined as the final observed token cost plus the estimated tokens removed by pruning: 

T before  

> i

= Ti + T saved  

> i

.

The estimated total token reduction percentage is then 

Token Reduction i = T saved 

> i

T before 

> i

× 100 .

The efficiency table reports the mean of this quan-tity over reports. This metric measures within-method pruning effectiveness, namely how much of the method’s own pre-pruning token budget is removed by pruning. 

A.7 Savings vs. Baseline: 

To quantify absolute savings relative to the un-pruned baseline, we compare the mean total token count of each method against the baseline mean total token count. The percentage savings relative to baseline are computed as 

Savings vs . Baseline = 



1 − ¯Tmethod 

¯Tbaseline 



× 100 .

When reported in absolute units, mean savings vs. baseline are expressed in thousands of tokens: 

Mean Savings vs . Baseline = ¯Tbaseline − ¯Tmethod 

1000 .

Thus, this quantity answers how many fewer tokens, in k tokens per report, a method uses on average relative to baseline. 11 A.8 Token breakdown and token share by stage. 

For each token phase ϕ, we aggregate stage-wise token usage as 

Ti,ϕ = T in  

> i,ϕ

+ T out  

> i,ϕ

.

The token breakdown table reports ¯Tϕ for each stage. The token-share table reports the fraction of the total token budget consumed by each stage: 

Share i,ϕ = Ti,ϕ 

Ti

× 100 .

This decomposition reveals whether a method’s cost is dominated by planning, query generation, pruning, result processing, or embedding. In most methods, result processing dominates the total to-ken budget; in methods with explicit LLM-based query pruning, the pruning stage itself also con-tributes nontrivially. 

A.9 Runtime metrics: 

For each report, total runtime is measured as wall-clock time from the start to the end of the pipeline. The runtime breakdown table reports the mean and standard error of the total runtime and of each logged stage-level latency. Let Li,ψ denote the duration of stage ψ in report i, with reported stage values ¯Lψ.We define the measured pipeline stages as fol-lows: • Total Runtime (s): The total elapsed wall-clock time for the entire report generation pipeline. • Planning: Measures the time to generate the initial follow-up questions that decompose the user query into high-level research directions. This stage occurs once at the root and seeds all subsequent stages. • Query Generation (Query Gen): Measures the time to convert follow-up questions—both from Planning and any additional questions generated during Result Processing—into candidate queries suitable for retrieval. • Query Pruning: Measures any extra latency in-curred when candidate queries are explicitly fil-tered before retrieval. • Research / Scraping: Measures the retrieval-heavy stage in which the system issues searches, visits sources, and gathers raw evidence for the candidate queries. • Result Processing (Result Proc.): Measures the time spent processing retrieved context into struc-tured learnings, follow-up questions if needed (i.e. max depth not yet reached), and citations. These follow-up questions later feed into Query Generation. • Branch Pruning: Measures the overhead of post-retrieval pruning during recursive branch aggregation, where candidate branches are eval-uated and potentially discarded based on incre-mental utility. • Root Pruning: Measures the cost of pre-synthesis pruning of the final aggregated context before the report is produced. 

A.10 Pruning-stage effectiveness: 

To characterize where pruning happens within the pipeline, we report stage-wise pruning ratios and stage-wise token reductions at pre-retrieval, post-retrieval, and pre-synthesis levels. For a given stage 

s, let nbefore  

> i,s

and nafter  

> i,s

denote the number of candi-date items before and after pruning. The stage-level pruning ratio is 

Ratio i,s = nbefore  

> i,s

− nafter 

> i,s

nbefore 

> i,s

× 100 .

Likewise, if Cbefore  

> i,s

and Cafter  

> i,s

denote the tok-enized context sizes before and after pruning, the corresponding stage-level token reduction is 

TokenRed i,s = Cbefore  

> i,s

− Cafter 

> i,s

Cbefore 

> i,s

× 100 .

For pre-retrieval pruning, the item count refers to candidate queries; for post-retrieval and pre-synthesis pruning, it refers to retained context items. Reporting both quantities is useful because prun-ing by item count and pruning by token mass are not identical: removing half of the items does not necessarily remove half of the tokens. 

B Additional Method Details 

This section provides additional detail on the prun-ing strategies compared in the main paper. We first introduce shared notation, then describe each strat-egy in turn, including its intuition, mathematical form, and stage-specific role in our pipeline. We adopt the notation from Section 3. Let e(·) ∈

Rd denote the embedding function, and let 

q = e(Q)

be the embedding of the root query Q. A candidate item is denoted by x. Depending on the pruning 12 stage, x may represent a generated subquery, a re-trieved context item, or a context block considered for final synthesis. We write C for the current re-tained context, with elements ci ∈ Rd.Our default semantic similarity is cosine similar-ity: 

sim( u, v ) = u⊤v

∥u∥ ∥ v∥ .

When budget-awareness is needed, we write 

cost( x) for the token cost of candidate x.When a formula operates in embedding space, we write e(x) for the embedding of candidate x and 

e(c) for the embedding of a retained item c ∈ C.We use 

w(x) = max(sim( e(x), q ), 0) 

for the nonnegative scalar query-relevance weight, reserving q exclusively for the query embedding. For projection-based methods, PC (·) denotes or-thogonal projection onto the span of {e(c) : c ∈

C}.

B.1 Heuristic Strategies Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) Maxi-mal Marginal Relevance (MMR) is a classical in-formation retrieval criterion that balances query relevance against redundancy with respect to al-ready selected content (Carbonell and Goldstein, 2017). In our setting, the MMR score of candidate 

x is 

VMMR (x | C, Q ) = λ sim( e(x), q )

− (1 − λ) max  

> c∈C

sim( e(x), e (c)) .

where λ ∈ [0 , 1] controls the relevance–novelty trade-off. The first term rewards semantic alignment with the research query, while the second penalizes over-lap with previously retained evidence. A candidate receives a high score only if it is both relevant and non-redundant. Because cosine similarity lies in 

[−1, 1] , the effective score range is bounded by the mixture weights, shifting toward query relevance as λ increases. Operationally, MMR is used for Post-Retrieval 

pruning and Pre-Synthesis pruning. At Post-Retrieval , the score is used as an information-gain test for deciding whether a branch should be re-tained. At Pre-Synthesis , MMR is used greedily to construct a compact final context under a budget by repeatedly selecting the item with the highest marginal MMR score. 

Geometric Residual Novelty Geometric Resid-ual Novelty (GRN) measures whether a candidate introduces a new semantic direction relative to the retained context. The idea is inspired by residual-based subspace selection methods such as orthogo-nal matching pursuit (Tropp and Gilbert, 2007). Let 

U(C) denote the subspace spanned by the retained context embeddings, and let PC (e(x)) denote the orthogonal projection of e(x) onto that subspace.. We define the residual 

res( x; C) = e(x) − PC (e(x)) ,

and the gain 

VGRN (x | C) = ∥ res( x; C)∥2

If the residual norm is small, then x lies largely within the span of existing evidence and contributes little novelty. If the residual norm is large, then x

contributes a new semantic direction. With unit-normalized embeddings, VGRN ∈ [0 , 1] .In our pipeline, GRN is used at Post-Retrieval to determine whether a newly retrieved branch adds genuinely new information relative to already ac-cepted branches, and at Pre-Synthesis to retain con-text items that maximize orthogonal novelty under a token or word budget. 

Centroid Drift Centroid drift is an embedding-space adaptation of centroid-based representa-tiveness ideas from multi-document summariza-tion (Radev et al., 2004). Rather than measuring redundancy through only pairwise similarity, it asks whether adding a candidate changes the semantic center of the retained context. Let 

μC = 1

|C|

X

> c∈C

e(c)

denote the centroid of the current context. After adding candidate x, the updated centroid becomes 

μC∪{ x} = 1

|C| + 1 

X

> c∈C

e(c) + e(x)

!

.

We define gain as 

VCD (x | C) = 1 − sim( μC , μ C∪{ x}).

If adding x barely changes the centroid, then it is already well represented by the retained context and contributes little marginal value. If it produces a large drift, then it expands the semantic foot-print of the context. Since cosine similarity lies in 13 [−1, 1] , the score lies in [0 , 2] , although in practice values are usually much smaller. Centroid drift is used for Post-Retrieval prun-ing and Pre-Synthesis pruning. At Post-Retrieval ,a branch is retained only if it shifts the semantic center of the accepted evidence enough to exceed a threshold. At Pre-Synthesis , we greedily select con-text items that most increase the semantic footprint of the final retained set. 

Determinantal Point Processes (DPP) Determi-nantal Point Processes (DPPs) provide a probabilis-tic framework for selecting subsets that are both individually relevant and mutually diverse (Kulesza and Taskar, 2012). Let L be a positive semidefinite kernel matrix over candidate items, with entries 

Lij = w(i) w(j) ⟨˜e(i), ˜e(j)⟩,

where w(i) is the nonnegative query-relevance weight defined above. Because L is constructed as a weighted Gram matrix over normalized embeddings, it is positive semidefinite by construction. The gain of adding candidate x to context C is 

VDPP (x | C) = det( LC∪{ x})det( LC ) .

Geometrically, this ratio measures how much ad-ditional volume the candidate contributes to the se-lected set. Highly redundant candidates contribute little new volume and therefore receive small gains. Because L is positive semidefinite, the determinant ratio is nonnegative, with larger values indicating jointly relevant and diverse candidates. We use DPP-style gain for Post-Retrieval prun-ing and Pre-Synthesis pruning. At Post-Retrieval ,the determinant ratio acts as an information-gain score for deciding whether a branch is worth re-taining. At Pre-Synthesis , it is used greedily to construct a diverse final synthesis context. 

Submodular Coverage Submodular coverage is our most general budget-aware objective. It is based on query-focused facility-location style se-lection (Lin and Bilmes, 2011), and aims to retain a set of items that collectively covers the semantic space of the candidate pool while accounting for token cost. We define the coverage function 

F (C) = X

> j∈P

max 

> i∈C

w(i) sim( e(i), e (j)) .

Here, P denotes the full candidate pool available at the current pruning decision. It is fixed while scoring candidates for that decision step, and is recomputed only when the pipeline advances to a new pruning state. For example, if the current candidate pool is P = {x1, x 2, x 3} and the re-tained set is C = {x1}, then the marginal gain of adding x2 is computed as ∆F (x2 | C) =

F ({x1, x 2}) − F ({x1}) with coverage still eval-uated over the same fixed pool P . Also, i and j

index candidate items, while e(i) and e(j) denote their embeddings. The marginal gain of adding item x is 

∆F (x | C) = F (C ∪ { x}) − F (C).

To incorporate budget awareness, we normalize by token cost: 

VSC (x | C, Q ) = ∆F (x | C)cost( x) .

This objective favors candidates that cover large uncovered regions of the pool while remaining economical in token usage. Because redundant items add little new coverage, they receive low gain. Since the underlying objective is monotone submodular, greedy selection provides a natural and efficient approximation procedure. Submodular coverage is used in our experiments at all three stages. At Pre-Retrieval , it scores gen-erated subqueries before search. At Post-Retrieval ,it prunes low-value retrieved branches. At Pre-Synthesis , it compresses the final context under a budget. 

Combined Scoring Because relevance, novelty, and coverage capture different aspects of marginal value, we also study combined scoring functions that integrate multiple signals. A generic combined score can be written as 

Score( x) = α Rel( x, Q )+ β Nov( x, C ) + γ Cov( x, C, Q ),

where α, β, γ ≥ 0 are mixture weights. Our concrete hybrid instantiation combines di-rect query relevance, geometric novelty, and sub-modular coverage: 

Score( x) = α sim( e(x), q )

− β V GRN (x | C) + γ V SC (x | C, Q )

with α + β + γ = 1 .14 In the main Hybrid configuration used in our experiments, we set (α, β, γ ) = (0 .40 , 0.30 , 0.30) .The first term rewards direct alignment with the research goal, the second rewards orthogonal nov-elty, and the third rewards global coverage under a token-aware objective. We use this hybrid to study whether explicitly combining local relevance, novelty, and global coverage yields a better quality-efficiency trade-off than any single criterion alone. 

Lexical Pruning We additionally study a lexical pruning variant that replaces dense embedding sim-ilarity with a lightweight surface-form proxy. Each text is represented by a lexical profile consisting of TF–IDF weights and bigram sets. Similarity between two items is defined as a weighted combi-nation of TF–IDF cosine similarity (Ramos, 2003) and bigram Jaccard overlap (Broder, 1997): 

LexSim( x, y ) = wtfidf CosSim tfidf (x, y )+ wjac Jaccard bigram (x, y ),

with wtfidf + wjac = 1 .Using this lexical similarity, we define a lexical MMR-style score 

VLex (x | C, Q ) = λ LexSim( x, Q )

− (1 − λ) max  

> y∈C

LexSim( x, y ).

This criterion preserves the same relevance-versus-redundancy structure as embedding-based MMR, but avoids the cost of dense embedding com-putation. We use it as a cheap baseline for studying how much pruning performance depends on richer semantic representations. 

B.2 LLM-Based Pruning 

We evaluate LLM-based pruning variants in which a language model acts as a pruning judge. Given the current query, context, and candidate set, the model is prompted to assess the usefulness of each candidate and return structured outputs such as predicted gain, keep probability, or a keep-versus-prune decision. The system then retains the highest-scoring candidates or candidates above a threshold, depending on the stage. Compared with fixed heuristic rules, this ap-proach can incorporate richer semantic judgments and broader task context. However, it also intro-duces additional inference cost because pruning itself requires one or more model calls. In our ex-periments, LLM-based pruning is evaluated both as a standalone policy and in mixed-stage combi-nations with heuristic downstream pruning. 

B.3 Learning-Based Pruning 

We also study a learned controller for Pre-Retrieval 

branch selection. Its role is intentionally nar-row: given the current research state and a set of candidate subqueries, it predicts which candidate branches are most worth expanding before retrieval and downstream processing costs are incurred. To train this controller, we reconstruct a

candidate-level supervision dataset from raw gen-eration logs. Each example corresponds to one candidate branch considered at one decision point, together with the local search state available when that decision is made. Across 34 com-plete runs, this yields 360 candidate branch de-cisions. This count is larger than the number of executed branches because each decision point may contain multiple candidate subqueries, only some of which are ultimately expanded. For con-sistency of targets, we derive labels only from the submodular-family runs ( GPTResearcher_sc ), so the learned controller should be interpreted as a 

submodular-aligned pre-retrieval proxy rather than as a fully general learned pruning policy. We also partition the candidate-level dataset by run, so that decisions from the same execution trajectory do not appear in both training and evaluation splits. Our model is a lightweight multitask neu-ral value model built on the pretrained encoder 

BAAI/bge-small-en-v1.5 . One tower encodes the current search state, including the root query, lo-cal frame context, parent research goal, and pre-viously retained branches, while a second tower encodes the candidate branch through its query and research goal. We keep the encoder frozen and feed the resulting semantic representations, to-gether with structured search features such as depth, branch order, and prior retained count, into a small MLP. The model has two heads: a regression head that predicts a continuous utility score ˆg(x) and a classification head that predicts a keep probability 

pkeep (x).At inference time, candidate x is retained if 

pkeep (x) ≥ τ, 

where τ is the pruning threshold. In our experi-ments, we evaluate multiple thresholds, including 

τ = 0 .5 and τ = 0 .7, to control pruning aggres-siveness. If no candidate exceeds the threshold, 15 we retain the top-scoring candidate as a fallback to avoid degenerate empty expansions. In the full pipeline, learned Pre-Retrieval prun-ing is paired with submodular Post-Retrieval prun-ing and centroid-drift Pre-Synthesis pruning. Be-cause the supervision set remains modest in size after restricting labels to a single target defini-tion, we interpret the learned controller cautiously and treat it primarily as a proof-of-concept pre-retrieval proxy rather than as strong evidence that learned pruning currently outperforms well-designed heuristics. 

B.4 Stage-Specific Application 

Different pruning strategies are applied to different candidate types depending on the stage: • Pre-Retrieval: candidate items are generated subqueries, represented by their query text and associated research goals. The objective is to avoid launching redundant or low-value search branches before retrieval cost is incurred. • Post-Retrieval: candidate items are newly re-trieved evidence blocks, evaluated against previ-ously retained context. The objective is to stop low-value recursive expansion early. • Pre-Synthesis: candidate items are the final ag-gregated context blocks. The objective is to con-struct a compact, diverse, and query-relevant syn-thesis context under a budget. Operationally, Post-Retrieval pruning is typi-cally used as a thresholded gating rule, while Pre-Retrieval and Pre-Synthesis often involve greedy selection under item or word budgets. This shared formulation lets us compare different notions of marginal value within a common stage-aware exe-cution framework. 

B.5 Supplementary Cross-Benchmark Results on DeepResearch Bench 

To assess whether our main efficiency findings transfer beyond DeepResearchGym, we also eval-uate a subset of pruning configurations on Deep-Research Bench. We treat these experiments as supplementary cross-benchmark evidence rather than as a second primary benchmark. In particu-lar, we use them to test whether the stage-ordering conclusion that earlier pruning yields substantially larger end-to-end savings than late-only pruning remains stable under a different evaluation setup. Table 13 summarizes overall report quality, and Table 14 summarizes token and runtime efficiency. The DeepResearch Bench results support this efficiency trend: branch-only and two-stage prun-ing consistently yield much larger token and run-time savings than root-only pruning, and MMR 

remains one of the strongest compression-oriented heuristics. However, the method-level quality rank-ings are less aligned with those observed on Deep-ResearchGym. We interpret this discrepancy cau-tiously, as the two benchmarks differ both in task formulation and in how report quality is evaluated: DeepResearchGym uses an LLM-as-a-judge rubric over open-ended reports, whereas DeepResearch Bench reports RACE-style quality metrics. We therefore treat the DeepResearch Bench results as directional evidence for efficiency generalization, not as a full replication of the quality trade-offs in the main benchmark. 

B.6 Judge Sensitivity of Absolute Quality Scores 

Appendix Table 4 shows that absolute rubric-based quality scores can vary substantially with judge choice, even for the same generated reports. We therefore interpret the reported quality values pri-marily as relative comparisons under a fixed inde-pendent judge, rather than as judge-invariant ab-solute measurements. This caveat affects quality-sensitive method comparisons more than the pa-per’s efficiency conclusions, which do not depend on rubric calibration. A stronger robustness anal-ysis would test whether method-level rankings re-main stable across multiple independent judges on a shared subset of examples; we leave that exten-sion to future work. 

B.7 Sensitivity to Threshold Choice 

To assess whether the reported operating points are unusually fragile, we perform a local threshold sweep for five representative post-retrieval pruning methods: MMR , GRN , Centroid Drift , DPP , and 

Submodular Coverage . For each method, we fix all non-threshold hyperparameters at the published setting and vary only the pruning threshold over at least five values around the main-paper configura-tion. We report the full sweep (Table 15). We define a method’s stable sampled operating region as the largest contiguous threshold inter-val in the sampled sweep containing the published threshold τpub for which overall quality remains within 2% of the published configuration, i.e., 

Q(τ ) ≥ 0.98 Q(τpub ).

16 This criterion tests whether the reported hyperpa-rameters lie in a locally stable quality–efficiency region rather than at a brittle point estimate. Values below are mean scores over a 10-query sensitivity subset and are intended to characterize local sta-bility rather than fully re-rank methods on the full benchmark. 

C Prompts 

17 You are an expert research-planning assistant. You will be provided with a root query, a current frame query, an optional parent research goal, and a set of candidate search queries with associated research goals. Your task is to judge which candidate queries are worth expanding in a deep research pipeline. 

Evaluation criteria: 

• Prefer queries that are likely to retrieve high-value, non-redundant evi-dence. • Favor candidates that expand topical coverage, clarify missing aspects of the problem, or are likely to lead to useful sources. • Penalize candidates that are redundant, vague, off-topic, or unlikely to add meaningful new information. 

For each candidate, estimate: 

• predicted_gain : a score between 0 and 1 indicating expected marginal value. • keep_probability : a score between 0 and 1 indicating how strongly the candidate should be kept. • decision : either keep or prune .• reason : a short justification. 

Instructions: 

• Judge usefulness semantically, not by surface wording alone. • Be conservative: only keep queries that are likely to contribute meaning-ful new evidence. • Return only a JSON object with no additional explanation. 

Output format: 

{"candidates": [{"idx": 1, "predicted_gain": 0.81, "keep_probability": 0.92, "decision": "keep", "reason": "high value" }]}

Inputs: 

Root query: <root_query> 

Current frame query: <frame_query> 

Parent research goal: <parent_research_goal> 

Candidate queries: 

1. Query: <candidate_1_query> Goal: <candidate_1_goal> 2. Query: <candidate_2_query> Goal: <candidate_2_goal> ... 

(a) LLM-based query pruning instructions. 

You are an impartial evaluation assistant. You will be provided with a candidate question, a golden response (the ideal answer), and a candidate response (the model’s answer to evaluate). Your task is to assign an align-ment score indicating how well the candidate response matches the golden response. 

Scoring guidelines (0–5): 

• 5 — Fully aligned. Semantically equivalent; no missing key information; no contradictions. • 4 — Mostly aligned. Minor omissions or differences, but overall mean-ing preserved. • 3 — Partially aligned. Contains some correct elements but lacks impor-tant information. • 2 — Weak alignment. Only small portions match; the majority is incomplete or off-target. • 1 — Barely aligned. Very limited semantic overlap. • 0 — Not aligned. Irrelevant, contradictory, or does not follow the intent of the golden response (e.g., golden response asks for clarification, but the candidate provides a direct answer). 

Instructions: 

• Judge semantic meaning, not surface wording. • Be strict: only credit what the golden response explicitly or implicitly contains. • Output only a single integer from 0 to 5 with no additional explanation. 

Inputs: 

Candidate question: <question> 

Golden response: <golden_clarifying> 

Candidate response: <candidate_response> 

(b) LLM-as-a-judge evaluation instructions. Figure 2: Prompts used in our pipeline. Table 4: Judge-sensitivity analysis for rubric-based quality evaluation. Absolute scores vary substantially with judge choice, so main-paper quality results should be interpreted as relative comparisons under a fixed judge rather than as judge-invariant quality values. 

Model Judge Overall Clarity Depth Balance Breadth Support Insight KPR + KPC Cit. Recall 

gpt-5-mini gpt-5-mini 58.47 57.20 61.50 59.90 67.40 41.50 63.30 61.70 92.98 gpt-4.1-mini gpt-4.1-mini 91.50 89.00 96.00 90.00 96.60 91.00 87.00 72.24 99.52 gpt-4.1-mini gpt-5-mini 47.67 50.00 45.00 48.00 61.00 32.00 50.00 72.25 90.56 Qwen2-7B-Instruct (32k) gpt-5-mini 34.37 35.71 35.24 39.05 42.86 21.43 31.90 72.55 75.45 

18 Table 5: Performance comparison across all pruning strategies. Tokens are reported in thousands (k) (§ A.4). Values are mean ± standard error over 100 reports (§ A.1). Quality, relevance, and faithfulness metrics were obtained from DeepResearchGym (§ A.2) 

Cost Quality Relevance Faithfulness Method # Tokens Runtime (s) Overall Clarity Depth Balance Breadth Support Insight KPR + KPC Cit. Recall Baseline 375.4 ± 2.6k 3422.6 ± 140.6 57.83 55.05 62.12 57.27 65.96 45.45 61.11 70.23 95.54 

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

MMR(§ B.1) 114.6 ± 2.2k 1379.8 ± 68.3 56.62 54.50 59.90 57.20 65.50 43.20 59.40 63.49 91.70 Geo. Residual Novelty(§ B.1) 175.7 ± 5.1k 2087.9 ± 108.3 57.02 55.85 59.36 58.30 63.72 44.15 60.74 42.89 94.40 Centroid Drift(§ B.1) 137.5 ± 2.0k 1605.7 ± 73.9 56.84 56.12 59.90 56.63 64.18 43.37 60.82 41.29 92.48 Submodular Coverage(§ B.1) 141.9 ± 3.3k 1737.2 ± 108.1 55.22 53.54 57.68 55.86 62.42 42.63 59.19 47.94 91.97 DPP(§ B.1) 129.6 ± 2.5k 1520.6 ± 73.3 54.51 53.19 56.81 55.71 62.75 41.10 57.47 43.33 95.62 Combined (§ B.1) 117.8 ± 2.5k 1399.5 ± 71.0 56.03 54.90 58.30 57.20 64.20 42.60 59.00 64.13 92.59 Hybrid(§ B.1) 121.3 ± 2.8k 1449.5 ± 75.6 57.63 57.40 59.70 57.90 65.10 45.10 60.60 65.23 92.16 LLM (§ B.1) 211.8 ± 7.9k 2310.7 ± 137.8 59.65 57.40 63.00 60.00 66.80 48.20 62.50 49.65 93.54 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

MMR 366.0 ± 5.2k 4446.9 ± 159.0 57.77 55.30 59.20 60.00 66.70 44.50 60.90 65.26 90.41 Geo. Residual Novelty 374.1 ± 3.1k 4493.3 ± 155.2 55.98 53.70 59.35 56.41 64.67 41.96 59.78 41.67 90.38 Centroid Drift 374.5 ± 2.8k 4562.4 ± 149.8 52.38 49.60 55.70 52.60 60.50 40.60 55.30 43.75 90.19 Submodular Coverage 384.7 ± 3.3k 4533.3 ± 150.5 53.22 50.40 55.25 53.64 62.12 40.91 56.97 42.09 90.78 DPP 374.4 ± 3.2k 4512.4 ± 149.8 54.70 52.12 57.37 56.26 63.64 41.52 57.27 54.07 90.24 Combined 374.5 ± 6.1k 4408.6 ± 161.6 59.38 56.70 62.40 59.90 68.10 46.60 62.60 66.32 93.79 Hybrid 332.3 ± 10.6k 3834.1 ± 205.6 60.68 57.50 64.10 61.80 70.00 46.40 64.30 65.62 95.07 LLM 386.7 ± 3.1k 4512.0 ± 153.7 57.17 54.50 60.00 57.90 65.40 44.50 60.70 44.47 92.43 

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

MMR 114.6 ± 2.2k 1381.3 ± 68.2 56.40 55.90 58.80 57.20 64.70 43.70 58.10 65.16 92.61 Geo. Residual Novelty 175.2 ± 5.3k 2080.2 ± 107.5 57.94 54.37 60.52 58.33 64.48 43.02 60.94 64.47 93.06 Centroid Drift 118.1 ± 1.3k 1142.43 ± 105.82 57.44 55.57 59.48 59.69 64.95 44.54 60.41 43.23 92.94 Submodular Coverage 142.1 ± 3.2k 1776.5 ± 112.1 57.00 55.50 59.40 57.70 65.20 43.80 60.40 62.23 94.74 DPP 122.8 ± 1.8k 1462.31 ± 236.55 56.73 56.60 58.40 56.90 64.60 44.50 59.40 62.33 93.62 CD + SC 137.5 ± 2.0k 1599.6 ± 73.6 59.47 58.70 57.80 56.80 63.60 40.20 59.70 44.29 89.96 CD + LLM 136.0 ± 3.2k 1589.3 ± 76.2 58.65 56.80 62.10 58.90 66.20 46.00 61.90 63.40 94.34 SC + LLM 139.1 ± 4.1k 1700.6 ± 110.0 58.08 55.90 61.50 58.60 65.80 45.50 61.20 64.54 93.43 LLM 226.6 ± 8.1k 2632.3 ± 148.2 58.27 55.05 61.11 58.89 66.26 46.06 62.22 48.61 93.01 Lexical 115.1 ± 1.2k 1414.3 ± 64.8 54.62 53.40 57.20 57.30 61.70 40.30 57.80 46.13 91.38 Combined 117.6 ± 2.6k 1392.2 ± 71.4 54.87 53.90 57.50 56.00 64.20 39.80 57.80 64.88 93.03 Hybrid 121.7 ± 2.8k 1457.4 ± 75.3 56.92 56.30 60.20 57.30 65.40 43.20 59.10 64.25 93.51 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

MMR 100.1 ± 2.0k 1157.7 ± 63.6 55.90 54.00 58.90 56.30 63.70 42.60 59.90 63.43 91.84 Geo. Residual Novelty 150.0 ± 4.5k 1937.7 ± 344.0 56.68 54.55 58.69 58.18 64.85 43.64 60.20 45.13 91.33 Centroid Drift 120.6 ± 2.1k 1669.8 ± 321.4 56.00 54.90 58.98 55.92 63.78 42.24 60.20 43.64 93.30 Submodular 121.8 ± 2.8k 1438.9 ± 106.1 55.52 53.23 58.79 56.57 64.14 41.52 58.89 65.79 92.03 DPP 113.3 ± 2.2k 1626.2 ± 356.3 55.41 54.08 57.76 56.33 62.14 43.88 58.27 46.33 95.40 Lexical + CD + SC 120.1 ± 2.3k 1375.0 ± 63.4 57.81 57.17 59.49 59.09 64.85 45.05 61.21 42.67 93.31 Combined 102.8 ± 2.2k 1227.6 ± 76.6 55.00 54.00 57.50 57.80 63.80 39.20 57.70 62.50 90.83 Hybrid 106.3 ± 2.6k 1282.7 ± 81.2 57.10 56.60 59.90 57.10 64.90 44.50 59.60 64.80 93.06 Learned Query + Geo. Residual Novelty 145.7 ± 4.3k 1744.4 ± 103.5 58.13 56.60 61.30 59.00 65.60 45.80 60.50 51.78 95.48 LLM 143.6 ± 7.8k 1575 .2 ± 120 .2 59.53 58.17 62.37 60.43 66.56 46.77 62.90 65.09 93.12 Lexical 99.0 ± 1.1k 1166.4 ± 56.7 54.82 54.80 57.50 56.30 62.10 40.40 57.80 46.56 93.10 Unless otherwise specified, the same pruning criterion is applied at both the post-retrieval and pre-synthesis stages. Method-specific hyperparameters are: MMR ( λ = 0 .35 , max 10 contexts); DPP ( τ = 0 .30 , max 10 pre-synthesis contexts); centroid drift ( δ = 0 .03 ); geometric residual novelty (GRN, τ = 0 .85 ); and submodular coverage (prune when marginal gain per token < 0.05 );LLM ( δ = 0 .3); Lexical ( λ = .6, threshold = .2). 

19 Table 6: Efficiency comparison across all methods. Tokens are reported in thousands (k). Est. Token Reduction (%) denotes the estimated reduction relative to each method’s pre-pruning budget. Savings vs. Baseline (%) is computed from mean total tokens relative to the baseline mean token count. 

Method # Nodes (§ A.3) # Tokens (§ A.4) Est. Token Reduction (%) (§ A.6) Savings vs. Baseline (%) (§ A.7) Baseline 29.0 ± 0.0 375.4 ± 2.6k 0.0 0.0 

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty (§ B.1) 13.31 ± 0.37 175.7 ± 5.1k 22.02 ± 0.26 53.2 Centroid Drift (§ B.1) 10.47 ± 0.13 137.5 ± 2.0k 18.91 ± 0.26 63.4 Submodular Coverage (§ B.1) 10.82 ± 0.28 141.9 ± 3.3k 21.55 ± 0.26 62.2 DPP (§ B.1) 9.88 ± 0.16 129.6 ± 2.5k 21.99 ± 0.22 65.5 LLM (§ B.2) 14.90 ± 0.53 211.8 ± 7.9k 22.76 ± 0.38 43.6 MMR(§ B.1) 8.84 ± 0.08 114.6 ± 2.2k 22.11 ± 0.48 69.5 Combined (§ B.1) 9.00 ± 0.11 117.8 ± 2.5k 21.01 ± 0.48 68.6 Hybrid(§ B.1) 9.28 ± 0.15 121.3 ± 2.8k 20.92 ± 0.49 67.7 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 29 ± 0.00 374.1 ± 3.1k 28.12 ± 0.17 0.4 Centroid Drift 29 ± 0.00 374.5 ± 2.8k 28.12 ± 0.17 0.2 Submodular Coverage 29 ± 0.00 384.7 ± 3.3k 27.58 ± 0.18 -2.5 DPP 29 ± 0.00 374.4 ± 3.2k 28.15 ± 0.18 0.3 LLM 29 ± 0.00 386.7 ± 3.1k 27.66 ± 0.25 -3.0 MMR 29 ± 0.00 366.0 ± 5.2k 27.17 ± 0.55 2.5 Hybrid 29 ± 0.00 332.3 ± 10.6k 24.62 ± 1.26 11.5 Combined 29 ± 0.00 374.5 ± 6.1k 30.31 ± 0.66 0.2 

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift 9.02 ± 0.02 118.1 ± 1.3k 20.58 ± 0.24 68.5 Submodular Coverage 10.80 ± 0.28 142.1 ± 3.2k 22.92 ± 0.29 62.1 CD + SC 10.45 ± 0.13 137.5 ± 2.0k 20.69 ± 0.33 63.4 LLM 15.57 ± 0.53 226.6 ± 8.1k 23.57 ± 0.31 39.7 Lexical 9.00 ± 0.00 115.1 ± 1.2k 29.36 ± 0.24 69.3 MMR 8.84 ± 0.08 114.6 ± 2.2k 22.11 ± 0.48 69.5 Hybrid 9.30 ± 0.15 121.7 ± 2.8k 26.31 ± 0.66 67.6 Combined 8.98 ± 0.11 117.6 ± 2.6k 27.81 ± 0.60 68.7 CD + LLM 10.24 ± 0.17 136.0 ± 3.2k 20.30 ± 0.51 63.8 SC + LLM 10.54 ± 0.30 139.1 ± 4.1k 22.40 ± 0.55 62.9 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 11.57 ± 0.33 150.0 ± 4.5k 19.97 ± 0.33 60.0 DPP 8.68 ± 0.15 113.3 ± 2.2k 20.16 ± 0.23 69.8 Centroid Drift 9.27 ± 0.13 120.6 ± 2.1k 16.65 ± 0.28 67.9 Lexical + CD + SC 9.26 ± 0.14 120.1 ± 2.3k 17.82 ± 0.39 68.0 Lexical 7.90 ± 0.04 99.0 ± 1.1k 28.72 ± 0.27 73.6 MMR 7.82 ± 0.08 100.1 ± 2.0k 20.43 ± 0.44 73.3 Hybrid 8.16 ± 0.14 106.3 ± 2.6k 25.56 ± 0.66 71.7 Combined 7.90 ± 0.10 102.8 ± 2.2k 27.33 ± 0.58 72.6 LLM 10.12 ± 0.45 143.9 ± 7.7k 19.45 ± 0.81 61.7 

20 Table 7: Runtime breakdown across all methods.(§ A.9) Values are reported as mean ± standard error over 100 reports (§ A.1). Research / Scraping denotes the retrieval-heavy stage (‘branch_research‘ for the baseline and ‘scraping‘ for pruning methods). Pre-Retrieval, Post-Retrieval, and Pre-Synthesis report the latency of the corresponding pruning stages when separately instrumented. 

Method Total Runtime (s) Research / Scraping Result Proc. Query Gen Planning Pre-Retrieval Post-Retrieval Pre-Synthesis 

Baseline 3422.6 ± 140.6 2888.2 ± 304.2 1158.5 ± 54.3 339.0 ± 13.3 13.3 ± 0.7 – – –

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 1889.05 ± 400.04 1321.83 ± 317.06 456.61 ± 58.99 122.68 ± 18.15 13.47 ± 0.65 – 2.98 ± 0.33 –Centroid Drift 1587.48 ± 220.50 1098.06 ± 224.15 377.13 ± 23.32 92.22 ± 5.42 13.62 ± 0.69 – 2.46 ± 0.09 –Submodular Coverage 1734.63 ± 246.68 1209.74 ± 235.58 413.96 ± 34.39 105.59 ± 12.63 13.62 ± 0.69 – 3.03 ± 0.39 –DPP 1242.07 ± 152.57 823.06 ± 114.47 340.68 ± 27.93 80.77 ± 7.58 13.48 ± 0.66 – 2.59 ± 0.15 –LLM 2469.87 ± 446.85 1499.30 ± 333.19 671.39 ± 95.77 187.37 ± 30.62 13.62 ± 0.69 105.64 ± 18.95 – –Combined 1399 .50 ± 71 .00 999 .09 ± 64 .98 310 .68 ± 8.18 75 .29 ± 2.48 14 .03 ± 0.47 – 1.63 ± 0.06 –Hybrid 1449 .50 ± 75 .61 1038 .10 ± 68 .81 318 .96 ± 8.31 78 .33 ± 2.69 14 .03 ± 0.47 – 2.50 ± 0.10 –MMR 1121 .78 ± 136 .98 740 .04 ± 106 .95 304 .02 ± 28 .54 69 .35 ± 7.24 12 .92 ± 0.79 – 2.45 ± 0.09 –

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 4216.31 ± 473.91 2796.29 ± 359.11 1111.71 ± 88.83 330.73 ± 17.85 13.43 ± 0.68 – – 6.34 ± 3.87 Centroid Drift 4406.07 ± 334.44 2888.23 ± 304.19 1158.54 ± 54.34 339.04 ± 13.29 13.27 ± 0.70 – – 2.27 ± 0.06 Submodular Coverage 4370.96 ± 354.75 2904.30 ± 296.47 1165.94 ± 50.74 343.32 ± 12.54 13.62 ± 0.69 – – 1.29 ± 0.12 DPP 4365.29 ± 358.83 2896.47 ± 300.15 1161.14 ± 52.98 342.91 ± 12.55 13.62 ± 0.69 – – 2.23 ± 0.15 LLM 4345.87 ± 384.21 2862.36 ± 317.91 1142.62 ± 64.34 333.12 ± 16.24 13.62 ± 0.69 – – 20.23 ± 2.65 Combined 4408.62 ± 161.63 3002.82 ± 143.58 1091.47 ± 22.32 322.51 ± 6.69 14.00 ± 0.47 – – 1.26 ± 0.06 Hybrid 3834.09 ± 205.60 2625.22 ± 164.30 999.33 ± 30.68 303.32 ± 8.32 13.37 ± 0.50 – – 2.38 ± 0.09 MMR 4446.91 ± 158.95 3028.76 ± 142.72 1096.20 ± 21.75 323.49 ± 6.65 14.07 ± 0.47 – – 2.52 ± 0.06 

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift 1142.43 ± 105.82 748.48 ± 88.49 335.49 ± 14.29 77.85 ± 5.58 14.43 ± 1.25 – 1.33 ± 0.15 0.83 ± 0.03 Submodular Coverage 1513.36 ± 163.23 1020.51 ± 146.46 426.78 ± 37.31 107.07 ± 14.48 13.87 ± 0.83 – 1.42 ± 0.15 0.20 ± 0.05 Centroid Drift + Submodular 1588.01 ± 220.44 1098.06 ± 224.15 377.13 ± 23.32 92.22 ± 5.42 13.62 ± 0.69 – 2.57 ± 0.17 0.29 ± 0.01 LLM 2962.11 ± 434.18 1763.21 ± 337.56 769.32 ± 85.00 210.68 ± 28.73 13.60 ± 0.69 – 177.24 ± 21.10 24.07 ± 1.84 Lexical 1414.3 ± 64.8 1014.8 ± 64.2 313.1 ± 5.8 76.0 ± 1.8 14.2 ± 0.4 – 0.04 ± 0.00 0.01 ± 0.00 SC+LLM 1700 .60 ± 109 .98 1210 .75 ± 97 .39 368 .65 ± 13 .67 95 .10 ± 4.44 13 .97 ± 0.47 – 3.99 ± 0.11 9.61 ± 0.33 

CD+LLM 1589 .33 ± 76 .18 1109 .23 ± 68 .27 362 .02 ± 10 .28 90 .84 ± 3.05 13 .97 ± 0.47 – 3.65 ± 0.07 10 .80 ± 0.24 

Combined 1392 .21 ± 71 .36 994 .38 ± 65 .22 309 .02 ± 8.44 74 .78 ± 2.45 14 .04 ± 0.46 – 1.60 ± 0.06 0.27 ± 0.01 

Hybrid 1457 .36 ± 75 .31 1043 .03 ± 68 .60 320 .21 ± 8.36 78 .93 ± 2.69 14 .03 ± 0.47 – 2.34 ± 0.08 0.35 ± 0.01 

MMR 1381 .30 ± 68 .22 987 .79 ± 63 .59 305 .04 ± 6.69 73 .10 ± 2.15 14 .09 ± 0.46 – 2.45 ± 0.03 1.00 ± 0.03 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 1937.70 ± 344.04 1417.29 ± 318.62 384.96 ± 40.14 112.58 ± 14.24 13.62 ± 0.69 0.85 ± 0.07 2.62 ± 0.30 1.33 ± 0.07 DPP 1626.15 ± 356.25 1189.83 ± 333.62 326.32 ± 29.25 88.16 ± 6.03 13.62 ± 0.69 0.78 ± 0.05 2.22 ± 0.21 1.24 ± 0.19 Centroid Drift 1669.84 ± 321.43 1212.22 ± 317.93 339.74 ± 22.14 95.95 ± 5.31 13.62 ± 0.69 0.89 ± 0.11 2.07 ± 0.16 1.36 ± 0.15 Lexical + CD + SC 1334.22 ± 294.81 908.79 ± 279.25 329.63 ± 24.07 91.36 ± 6.27 13.62 ± 0.69 0.00 ± 0.00 2.19 ± 0.06 0.29 ± 0.01 Lexical 1166.4 ± 56.7 806.3 ± 54.0 273.6 ± 5.8 74.6 ± 1.7 14.1 ± 0.4 0.00 ± 0.00 0.03 ± 0.00 0.01 ± 0.00 LLM 1575 .23 ± 120 .22 1038 .86 ± 95 .46 353 .69 ± 21 .13 99 .04 ± 6.47 13 .45 ± 0.50 23 .62 ± 1.22 51 .99 ± 2.61 9.11 ± 0.43 

Combined 1227 .60 ± 76 .62 866 .04 ± 73 .06 271 .15 ± 7.03 73 .85 ± 2.24 14 .11 ± 0.47 0.62 ± 0.03 1.30 ± 0.03 0.26 ± 0.01 

Hybrid 1282 .72 ± 81 .18 910 .23 ± 76 .40 278 .68 ± 8.20 77 .03 ± 2.37 14 .01 ± 0.47 1.06 ± 0.04 1.72 ± 0.06 0.35 ± 0.01 

MMR 1157 .70 ± 63 .60 799 .70 ± 59 .94 267 .54 ± 6.88 72 .83 ± 2.11 14 .10 ± 0.47 0.79 ± 0.02 2.03 ± 0.03 1.00 ± 0.03 

21 Table 8: Token breakdown across all methods (in thousands, k) (§ A.8). Values are mean ± standard error (§ A.1). 

Method Total Tokens Planning Query Gen Query Pruning Result Proc. Embedding 

Baseline 375.4 ± 2.6k 2.3 ± 0.1k 11.9 ± 0.1k – 361.3 ± 2.5k –

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 175.7 ± 5.1k 2.3 ± 0.1k 4.8 ± 0.2k – 163.2 ± 3.8k 5.5 ± 0.2k Centroid Drift 137.5 ± 2.0k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.5 ± 0.1k – 127.5 ± 1.6k 4.2 ± 0.1k Submodular Coverage 141.9 ± 3.3k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.6 ± 0.1k – 130.5 ± 2.4k 5.5 ± 0.2k DPP 129.6 ± 2.5k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.2 ± 0.1k – 119.3 ± 1.8k 4.9 ± 0.1k LLM 211.8 ± 7.9k 2.3 ± 0.1k 5.5 ± 0.3k 20.8 ± 0.9k 183.3 ± 5.4k –Combined 117.8 ± 2.5k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.1k – 75.1 ± 1.7k 5.7 ± 0.1k Hybrid 121.3 ± 2.8k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.9 ± 0.1k – 77.5 ± 1.9k 5.9 ± 0.2k MMR 114.6 ± 2.2k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.7 ± 0.0k – 74.0 ± 1.6k 4.3 ± 0.1k 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 374.1 ± 3.1k 2.2 ± 0.1k 11.9 ± 0.1k – 360.0 ± 2.7k –Centroid Drift 374.5 ± 2.8k 2.3 ± 0.1k 11.9 ± 0.1k – 360.4 ± 2.6k –Submodular Coverage 384.7 ± 3.3k 2.3 ± 0.1k 11.9 ± 0.1k – 358.7 ± 2.8k 11.8 ± 0.1k DPP 374.4 ± 3.2k 2.3 ± 0.1k 11.9 ± 0.1k – 360.3 ± 3.0k –LLM 386.7 ± 3.1k 2.3 ± 0.1k 11.9 ± 0.1k 13.2 ± 0.2k 359.3 ± 2.8k –Combined 374.5 ± 6.1k 2.2 ± 0.1k 11.8 ± 0.1k – 248.4 ± 5.1k –Hybrid 332.3 ± 10.6k 1.9 ± 0.1k 11.6 ± 0.1k – 211.4 ± 9.1k –MMR 366.0 ± 5.2k 2.2 ± 0.1k 11.8 ± 0.1k – 250.8 ± 4.5k –

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift 118.1 ± 1.3k 2.3 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.0k – 109.5 ± 1.2k 3.6 ± 0.0k Submodular Coverage 142.1 ± 3.2k 2.2 ± 0.1k 3.6 ± 0.1k – 130.7 ± 2.4k 5.5 ± 0.2k CD + SC 137.5 ± 2.0k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.4 ± 0.1k – 127.6 ± 1.6k 4.2 ± 0.1k LLM 226.6 ± 8.1k 2.3 ± 0.1k 5.8 ± 0.3k 25.7 ± 0.9k 192.8 ± 5.4k –Lexical 115.1 ± 1.2k 2.3 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.0k – 110.1 ± 1.3k –SC+LLM 139.1 ± 4.1k 2.2 ± 0.1k 3.5 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.2k 88.1 ± 2.7k 5.3 ± 0.2k Hybrid 121.7 ± 2.8k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.9 ± 0.1k – 77.7 ± 1.9k 5.9 ± 0.2k Combined 117.6 ± 2.6k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.1k – 74.9 ± 1.8k 5.7 ± 0.1k CD+LLM 136.0 ± 3.2k 2.2 ± 0.1k 3.4 ± 0.1k 3.2 ± 0.1k 86.6 ± 2.1k 4.1 ± 0.1k MMR 114.6 ± 2.2k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.7 ± 0.1k – 74.0 ± 1.6k 4.3 ± 0.1k 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 150.0 ± 4.5k 2.2 ± 0.1k 4.4 ± 0.2k – 138.6 ± 3.3k 4.7 ± 0.1k DPP 113.3 ± 2.2k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.1 ± 0.1k – 103.5 ± 1.6k 4.4 ± 0.1k Centroid Drift 120.6 ± 2.1k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.4 ± 0.1k – 111.2 ± 1.6k 3.7 ± 0.1k Lexical + CD + SC 120.1 ± 2.3k 2.3 ± 0.1k 3.5 ± 0.1k – 110.7 ± 1.7k 3.7 ± 0.1k Lexical 99.0 ± 1.1k 2.3 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.0k – 94.0 ± 1.1k –LLM 143.9 ± 7.7k 2.0 ± 0.1k 3.8 ± 0.2k 6.2 ± 0.3k 82.5 ± 4.6k –Combined 102.8 ± 2.2k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.8 ± 0.1k – 65.1 ± 1.5k 5.8 ± 0.1k Hybrid 106.3 ± 2.6k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.9 ± 0.1k – 67.0 ± 1.8k 6.0 ± 0.1k MMR 100.1 ± 2.0k 2.2 ± 0.1k 2.7 ± 0.0k – 64.5 ± 1.4k 3.8 ± 0.1k 

22 Table 9: Node-level pruning summary 

Method # Nodes (§ A.3) Avg. Pruned Nodes Pruning Rate (%) 

Baseline 29.0 ± 0.0 0.0 ± 0.0 0.0 

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 13.31 ± 0.37 4.48 ± 0.10 33.7 Centroid Drift 10.47 ± 0.13 3.44 ± 0.05 32.9 Submodular Coverage 10.82 ± 0.28 4.82 ± 0.07 44.5 DPP 9.88 ± 0.16 4.99 ± 0.06 50.5 LLM 14.90 ± 0.53 6.30 ± 0.19 42.3 Hybrid 9.28 ± 0.15 4.82 ± 0.05 51.9 Combined 9.00 ± 0.11 4.75 ± 0.05 52.8 MMR 8.84 ± 0.08 4.93 ± 0.03 55.8 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 28.88 ± 0.12 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 Centroid Drift 28.94 ± 0.05 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 Submodular Coverage 28.85 ± 0.13 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 DPP 28.90 ± 0.10 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 LLM 28.98 ± 0.02 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 Combined 28.90 ± 0.08 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 Hybrid 28.98 ± 0.02 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 MMR 28.98 ± 0.02 0.00 ± 0.00 0.0 

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift 9.02 ± 0.02 4.20 ± 0.05 46.6 Submodular Coverage 10.80 ± 0.28 4.80 ± 0.07 44.4 CD + SC 10.45 ± 0.13 3.43 ± 0.05 32.8 LLM 15.57 ± 0.53 6.30 ± 0.16 40.5 Lexical 9.00 ± 0.00 4.99 ± 0.01 55.4 SC + LLM 10.54 ± 0.30 4.79 ± 0.07 45.4 CD + LLM 10.24 ± 0.17 3.45 ± 0.05 33.7 Combined 8.98 ± 0.11 4.76 ± 0.05 53.0 Hybrid 9.30 ± 0.15 4.82 ± 0.05 51.8 MMR 8.84 ± 0.08 4.94 ± 0.03 55.9 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 11.57 ± 0.33 3.49 ± 0.09 30.2 DPP 8.68 ± 0.15 3.95 ± 0.05 45.5 Centroid Drift 9.27 ± 0.13 2.45 ± 0.05 26.4 Lexical + CD + SC 9.26 ± 0.14 2.31 ± 0.06 24.9 Lexical 7.90 ± 0.04 3.88 ± 0.04 49.1 LLM 10.12 ± 0.45 4.57 ± 0.13 45.2 Combined 7.90 ± 0.10 3.75 ± 0.05 47.5 Hybrid 8.16 ± 0.14 3.81 ± 0.05 46.7 MMR 7.82 ± 0.08 3.97 ± 0.02 50.8 This table summarizes how strongly each method contracts the research tree. # Nodes estimates the number of nodes actually explored per report, while Avg. Pruned Nodes measures how many of those explored nodes were discarded. Pruning Rate therefore captures the fraction of explored nodes removed by the pruning policy. 

23 Table 10: Token accounting summary (k tokens; mean ± SE). Mean Savings vs. Baseline is computed from the reported mean total token counts. 

Method Input Output Total Est. Saved Savings vs. Baseline (k) 

Baseline 260.7 ± 2.7 114.7 ± 0.7 375.4 ± 2.6 149.1 ± 1.8 0.0 

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 125.3 ± 3.7 50.4 ± 1.6 175.7 ± 5.1 51.0 ± 2.1 199.7 Centroid Drift 99.0 ± 1.6 38.5 ± 0.6 137.5 ± 2.0 32.4 ± 0.8 237.9 Submodular Coverage 101.8 ± 2.1 40.1 ± 1.3 141.9 ± 3.3 38.7 ± 0.9 233.4 DPP 93.7 ± 1.8 36.0 ± 0.8 129.6 ± 2.5 36.4 ± 0.7 245.7 LLM 154.0 ± 5.7 57.8 ± 2.3 211.8 ± 7.9 63.4 ± 3.0 163.5 Hybrid 87.7 ± 2.2 33.5 ± 0.7 121.3 ± 2.8 33.5 ± 0.9 67.7 MMR 82.9 ± 1.9 31.7 ± 0.5 114.6 ± 2.2 34.2 ± 0.8 69.5 Combined 85.5 ± 2.1 32.3 ± 0.6 117.8 ± 2.5 33.0 ± 0.9 257.6 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 259.5 ± 2.8 114.5 ± 0.9 374.1 ± 3.1 147.1 ± 2.0 1.3 Centroid Drift 259.7 ± 2.7 114.8 ± 0.7 374.5 ± 2.8 147.2 ± 1.9 0.9 Submodular Coverage 270.2 ± 2.9 114.4 ± 0.9 384.7 ± 3.3 147.3 ± 2.0 -9.3 DPP 259.8 ± 3.0 114.6 ± 0.8 374.4 ± 3.2 147.3 ± 1.9 1.0 LLM 271.3 ± 3.1 115.5 ± 0.7 386.7 ± 3.1 149.2 ± 2.2 -11.3 Combined 260.4 ± 5.7 114.1 ± 0.9 374.5 ± 6.1 171.6 ± 4.2 0.2 Hybrid 221.9 ± 9.9 110.4 ± 1.0 332.3 ± 10.6 137.4 ± 7.3 11.5 MMR 251.5 ± 5.0 114.5 ± 0.8 366.0 ± 5.2 142.3 ± 3.4 2.5 

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift 85.9 ± 1.3 32.2 ± 0.3 118.1 ± 1.3 30.8 ± 0.5 257.3 Submodular Coverage 102.4 ± 2.2 39.8 ± 1.3 142.1 ± 3.2 41.9 ± 0.9 233.3 CD + SC 99.1 ± 1.6 38.4 ± 0.6 137.5 ± 2.0 36.1 ± 0.9 237.9 LLM 165.6 ± 5.8 60.9 ± 2.3 226.6 ± 8.1 70.0 ± 2.9 148.8 Lexical 82.8 ± 1.3 32.4 ± 0.3 115.1 ± 1.2 48.0 ± 0.7 260.3 SC + LLM 99.9 ± 2.9 39.2 ± 1.4 139.1 ± 4.1 41.7 ± 1.3 236.3 Combined 85.3 ± 2.1 32.3 ± 0.6 117.6 ± 2.6 47.9 ± 1.3 68.7 CD + LLM 98.1 ± 2.5 37.9 ± 0.8 136.0 ± 3.2 36.5 ± 1.2 239.4 Hybrid 88.0 ± 2.2 33.6 ± 0.7 121.7 ± 2.8 46.1 ± 1.5 67.6 MMR 82.9 ± 1.9 31.7 ± 0.5 114.6 ± 2.2 34.2 ± 0.8 69.5 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 106.3 ± 3.2 43.7 ± 1.4 150.0 ± 4.5 38.7 ± 1.7 225.4 DPP 81.6 ± 1.7 31.7 ± 0.7 113.3 ± 2.2 28.5 ± 0.6 262.0 Centroid Drift 86.4 ± 1.7 34.2 ± 0.5 120.6 ± 2.1 24.4 ± 0.7 254.8 Lexical + CD + SC 86.0 ± 1.7 34.1 ± 0.6 120.1 ± 2.3 26.5 ± 0.9 255.3 Lexical 70.7 ± 1.0 28.3 ± 0.3 99.0 ± 1.1 40.2 ± 0.7 276.4 LLM 105.0 ± 5.8 38.9 ± 2.0 143.9 ± 7.7 38.9 ± 2.2 231.5 Combined 74.3 ± 1.8 28.5 ± 0.5 102.8 ± 2.2 40.9 ± 1.1 72.6 Hybrid 76.8 ± 2.1 29.5 ± 0.6 106.3 ± 2.6 38.9 ± 1.4 71.7 MMR 72.0 ± 1.7 28.2 ± 0.5 100.1 ± 2.0 27.0 ± 0.7 73.3 This table provides a more detailed view of token usage. In addition to total token cost, it separates input and output tokens, reports the estimated number of tokens saved by pruning, and shows the absolute mean token savings relative to the baseline. This helps distinguish methods that achieve low total cost by aggressively pruning large prompt contexts from those that reduce generation cost or avoid expanding large parts of the search tree altogether. 

24 Table 11: Share of total token budget by pipeline stage (%; mean ± SE). Dashes indicate stages that do not consume logged tokens for that method. 

Method Planning Query Generation Query Pruning Result Proc. Embedding 

Baseline 1.02 ± 0.05 4.58 ± 0.14 – 94.41 ± 0.18 –

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 1.42 ± 0.07 2.68 ± 0.04 – 92.76 ± 0.40 3.14 ± 0.03 Centroid Drift 1.69 ± 0.07 2.54 ± 0.04 – 92.68 ± 0.44 3.10 ± 0.03 Submodular Coverage 1.67 ± 0.07 2.50 ± 0.05 – 91.98 ± 0.45 3.85 ± 0.04 DPP 1.81 ± 0.07 2.47 ± 0.04 – 91.90 ± 0.42 3.82 ± 0.04 LLM 1.23 ± 0.06 2.52 ± 0.05 9.55 ± 0.14 86.70 ± 0.44 –Combined 1.90 ± 0.07 2.50 ± 0.08 – 62.51 ± 0.77 4.68 ± 0.11 Hybrid 1.86 ± 0.07 2.55 ± 0.08 – 62.84 ± 0.67 4.70 ± 0.11 MMR 1.93 ± 0.06 2.53 ± 0.09 – 63.42 ± 0.72 3.63 ± 0.08 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 0.60 ± 0.02 3.19 ± 0.04 – 96.21 ± 0.39 –Centroid Drift 0.60 ± 0.02 3.19 ± 0.04 – 96.21 ± 0.40 –Submodular Coverage 0.60 ± 0.02 3.10 ± 0.04 – 93.22 ± 0.39 3.09 ± 0.03 DPP 0.61 ± 0.02 3.19 ± 0.04 – 96.21 ± 0.48 –LLM 0.60 ± 0.02 3.10 ± 0.04 3.43 ± 0.06 92.86 ± 0.45 –Combined 0.58 ± 0.02 3.31 ± 0.11 – 65.21 ± 0.83 –Hybrid 0.54 ± 0.02 4.10 ± 0.20 – 58.85 ± 1.56 –MMR 0.60 ± 0.02 3.36 ± 0.09 – 67.70 ± 0.76 –

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift 1.93 ± 0.07 2.40 ± 0.04 – 92.61 ± 0.59 3.06 ± 0.03 Submodular Coverage 1.67 ± 0.07 2.49 ± 0.05 – 91.99 ± 0.58 3.84 ± 0.04 CD + SC 1.68 ± 0.07 2.53 ± 0.04 – 92.69 ± 0.45 3.10 ± 0.03 LLM 1.16 ± 0.06 2.48 ± 0.04 11.13 ± 0.18 85.25 ± 0.48 –Lexical 1.98 ± 0.07 2.45 ± 0.05 – 95.57 ± 0.09 –SC+LLM 1.68 ± 0.07 2.57 ± 0.07 1.87 ± 0.06 62.39 ± 0.69 3.61 ± 0.08 CD+LLM 1.67 ± 0.06 2.60 ± 0.08 2.29 ± 0.06 62.57 ± 0.70 2.90 ± 0.07 Hybrid 1.84 ± 0.06 2.53 ± 0.08 – 62.69 ± 0.74 4.73 ± 0.11 Combined 1.90 ± 0.07 2.52 ± 0.09 – 62.40 ± 0.82 4.67 ± 0.11 MMR 1.93 ± 0.06 2.51 ± 0.08 – 63.43 ± 0.72 3.63 ± 0.08 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 1.62 ± 0.07 2.95 ± 0.04 – 92.28 ± 0.44 3.15 ± 0.03 DPP 2.07 ± 0.08 2.78 ± 0.04 – 91.25 ± 0.46 3.90 ± 0.04 Centroid Drift 1.94 ± 0.08 2.85 ± 0.04 – 92.12 ± 0.52 3.09 ± 0.03 Lexical + CD + SC 1.94 ± 0.08 2.92 ± 0.06 – 92.04 ± 0.45 3.10 ± 0.03 Lexical 2.30 ± 0.08 2.88 ± 0.06 – 94.82 ± 0.11 –LLM 1.74 ± 0.10 3.04 ± 0.15 4.99 ± 0.25 53.72 ± 1.17 –Combined 2.18 ± 0.08 2.91 ± 0.12 – 62.00 ± 0.78 5.75 ± 0.07 Hybrid 2.13 ± 0.08 2.91 ± 0.10 – 61.71 ± 0.79 5.72 ± 0.06 MMR 2.24 ± 0.08 2.96 ± 0.12 – 63.30 ± 0.72 3.68 ± 0.08 This table decomposes each method’s total token budget into stage-wise shares, highlighting where token usage is concentrated within the pipeline. While most methods are dominated by result-processing costs, approaches with explicit LLM-based pre-retrieval pruning allocate a significant fraction of tokens to the pruning stage itself. 

25 Table 12: Pruning-stage effectiveness (%; mean ± SE). Ratios denote the fraction of candidate items removed at each stage; token reduction denotes the corresponding decrease in context tokens. 

Method Q-Ratio Q-Token Red. Branch Ratio Branch Token Red. Root Ratio Root Token Red. 

Baseline – – – – – –

One-stage methods: Post-Retrieval Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty – – 39.6 ± 1.4 40.6 ± 1.4 11.3 ± 1.0 12.1 ± 1.1 Centroid Drift – – 37.5 ± 1.0 40.2 ± 1.1 4.7 ± 0.5 5.5 ± 0.6 Submodular Coverage – – 51.7 ± 1.1 54.1 ± 1.1 2.3 ± 0.5 2.5 ± 0.6 DPP – – 57.5 ± 0.7 58.3 ± 0.8 0.8 ± 0.3 1.0 ± 0.3 LLM – – 50.7 ± 1.9 49.7 ± 1.9 12.2 ± 1.2 12.9 ± 1.2 Combined – – 60.5 ± 1.0 61.4 ± 1.0 0.2 ± 0.1 0.2 ± 0.2 Hybrid – – 59.9 ± 1.1 60.6 ± 1.1 0.4 ± 0.2 0.6 ± 0.2 MMR – – 63.9 ± 0.8 64.6 ± 0.8 0.0 ± 0.0 0.0 ± 0.0 

One-stage methods: Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty – – – – 75.8 ± 0.4 77.1 ± 0.3 Centroid Drift – – – – 75.9 ± 0.3 77.2 ± 0.2 Submodular Coverage – – – – 75.3 ± 0.4 77.5 ± 0.3 DPP – – – – 76.2 ± 0.4 77.5 ± 0.2 LLM – – – – 62.9 ± 0.5 61.8 ± 0.5 Combined – – – – 96.1 ± 0.1 96.0 ± 0.1 Hybrid – – – – 92.6 ± 0.8 92.5 ± 0.8 MMR – – – – 77.2 ± 0.5 76.2 ± 0.5 

Two-stage methods: Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Centroid Drift – – 52.6 ± 0.6 54.4 ± 0.7 0.0 ± 0.0 0.0 ± 0.0 Submodular Coverage – – 51.6 ± 1.1 53.9 ± 1.1 16.3 ± 1.7 17.0 ± 1.9 CD + SC – – 37.6 ± 1.0 40.2 ± 1.0 20.3 ± 1.7 21.0 ± 1.7 LLM – – 48.6 ± 1.9 48.0 ± 1.9 26.1 ± 1.7 24.7 ± 1.8 Lexical – – 58.2 ± 0.7 57.7 ± 0.9 60.0 ± 1.6 57.9 ± 1.7 MMR – – 63.9 ± 0.8 64.6 ± 0.8 0.0 ± 0.0 0.0 ± 0.0 Hybrid – – 59.6 ± 1.1 60.4 ± 1.1 54.4 ± 3.1 53.8 ± 3.1 Combined – – 60.9 ± 1.0 61.6 ± 1.0 68.6 ± 0.9 67.1 ± 1.1 SC+LLM – – 53.8 ± 1.4 56.0 ± 1.4 23.7 ± 1.8 22.3 ± 1.7 CD+LLM – – 40.0 ± 1.6 42.5 ± 1.6 25.9 ± 0.6 20.3 ± 0.5 

Three-stage methods: Pre-Retrieval + Post-Retrieval + Pre-Synthesis Pruning 

Geo. Residual Novelty 25.0 ± 0.0 24.7 ± 0.3 36.0 ± 1.3 36.2 ± 1.3 20.4 ± 1.9 21.2 ± 2.0 DPP 25.0 ± 0.0 24.2 ± 0.2 52.3 ± 0.7 52.4 ± 0.8 1.4 ± 0.6 1.4 ± 0.6 Centroid Drift 25.0 ± 0.0 24.8 ± 0.3 31.1 ± 1.1 32.5 ± 1.1 9.5 ± 1.0 9.6 ± 1.1 Lexical + CD + SC 27.8 ± 1.0 26.9 ± 1.1 29.1 ± 1.0 30.8 ± 1.0 17.8 ± 1.5 18.4 ± 1.5 Lexical 27.5 ± 1.0 26.6 ± 1.0 54.5 ± 0.6 53.5 ± 0.8 59.0 ± 1.6 58.2 ± 1.8 MMR 27.2 ± 0.5 21.2 ± 0.4 59.2 ± 0.9 58.8 ± 0.9 0.0 ± 0.0 0.0 ± 0.0 LLM 27.0 ± 0.9 21.3 ± 0.8 60.5 ± 2.5 59.2 ± 2.5 22.5 ± 2.3 21.1 ± 2.3 Hybrid 33.6 ± 0.8 26.8 ± 0.7 25.0 ± 0.0 24.0 ± 0.2 55.1 ± 1.2 55.0 ± 1.2 Combined 35.5 ± 0.7 28.5 ± 0.6 25.0 ± 0.0 24.0 ± 0.2 55.8 ± 1.1 55.7 ± 1.2 This table decomposes pruning behavior across pre-retrieval, post-retrieval, and pre-synthesis stages, reporting both the fraction of items removed and the corresponding reduction in token load. This breakdown reveals where pruning occurs within the pipeline, distinguishing methods that act early at the pre-retrieval stage from those relying primarily on post-retrieval or pre-synthesis reduction. 

26 Figure 3: Overall quality versus token usage in thousands (averaged over the 100 reports) for all pruning strategies reported in Table 5. Each point corresponds to one method configuration, with marker style and color indicating the pruning stage. The baseline is highlighted separately, and labels use shortened method names for readability. Table 13: DeepResearch Bench overall quality across pruning criteria and stage placement. Scores are RACE-style report-quality metrics. Bold denotes the best pruned value in each stage column. 

Criterion Branch-only Root-only Two-stage Three-stage 

Baseline 0.4798 0.4798 0.4798 0.4798 DPP 0.4584 0.4774 0.4648 0.4591 Centroid Drift 0.4567 0.4759 0.4676 0.4590 GRN 0.4688 0.4794 0.4716 0.4612 

MMR 0.4541 0.4766 0.4605 0.4523 Submodular 0.4557 0.4811 0.4561 0.4534 

Table 14: DeepResearch Bench efficiency across pruning criteria and stage placement. Tokens are reported in thousands (k), and savings are relative to the unpruned baseline. Bold denotes the best pruned value in each stage column.                                                                            

> Branch-only Root-only Two-stage Three-stage Criterion Tokens Tok. Sav. Run. Sav. Tokens Tok. Sav. Run. Sav. Tokens Tok. Sav. Run. Sav. Tokens Tok. Sav. Run. Sav.
> DPP 89 .42 72 .65% 81 .14% 281 .98 13 .77% 32 .54% 89 .81 72 .53% 80 .95% 25 .60 92 .17% 93 .60%
> Centroid Drift 95 .50 70 .79% 78 .01% 300 .54 8.09% 28 .62% 92 .62 71 .68% 80 .32% 81 .41 75 .10% 79 .93%
> GRN 110 .72 66 .14% 74 .77% 286 .25 12 .46% 28 .75% 90 .57 72 .30% 82 .89% 27 .27 91 .66% 93 .44%
> MMR 86 .05 73 .68% 81 .94% 301 .83 7.69% 28 .49% 89 .03 72 .77% 81 .76% 25 .13 92 .32% 94 .30%
> Submodular 96 .62 70 .45% 79 .77% 312 .15 4.54% 24 .78% 97 .68 70 .13% 67 .35% 84 .03 74 .30% 82 .92%

27 Table 15: Local threshold sweeps for representative post-retrieval pruning methods. ∆Qrel is the percent change in overall quality relative to the published threshold setting for that method. Rows satisfying the 2% stability criterion are marked with ✓. Tokens are reported in thousands (k). Values are mean scores over a 10-query sensitivity subset. 

Method Threshold # Tokens Runtime (s) Overall ∆Qrel Stable? MMR (fixed λ = 0 .35 , published τpub = 0 .35 )0.10 121.3 1239.0 58.33 +3.24% ✓

0.20 121.3 1238.9 57.50 +1.77% ✓

0.30 121.3 1239.0 56.83 +0.58% ✓

0.35 121.3 1239.1 56.50 0.00% ✓

0.40 121.3 1239.3 56.50 0.00% ✓

GRN (published τpub = 0 .85 )0.65 307.3 3034.3 61.30 +0.21% ✓

0.75 268.7 2616.3 61.17 0.00% ✓

0.80 231.4 2300.3 58.17 -4.90% 0.85 171.9 1756.2 61.17 0.00% ✓

0.90 138.3 1430.1 59.83 -2.19% 

Centroid Drift (published τpub = 0 .03 )0.005 227.0 2336.6 61.50 +0.28% ✓

0.01 202.9 2068.9 60.50 -1.35% ✓

0.03 137.4 1438.2 61.33 0.00% ✓

0.05 126.1 1341.5 58.67 -4.34% 0.085 120.4 1237.7 58.83 -4.08% 

DPP (published τpub = 0 .30 )0.05 391.4 3723.4 61.33 +0.82% ✓

0.10 363.1 3465.4 60.83 0.00% ✓

0.20 216.0 2223.6 59.83 -1.64% ✓

0.30 134.1 1422.9 60.83 0.00% ✓

0.40 121.3 1237.6 57.33 -5.75% 

Submodular Coverage (published τpub = 0 .05 )0.01 383.1 3652.0 59.83 -0.83% ✓

0.03 232.7 2303.3 59.83 -0.83% ✓

0.05 143.7 1516.2 60.33 0.00% ✓

0.08 126.3 1302.8 59.17 -1.92% ✓

0.10 123.7 1261.1 57.67 -4.41% 

28