Title: Marginal utility, matrix factorization, and the Key-Value (KV) cache: a unified information-economic framework for sovereign geo-mining inference

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.20068v1

Published Time: Fri, 18 Sep 2026 01:02:44 GMT

Number of Pages: 49

Markdown Content:
# Marginal utility, matrix factorization, and the Key–Value (KV) cache: a unified information-economic framework for sovereign geo-mining inference 

## C. Gans Combe ∗

## Article v11, 14 September 2026 

Abstract 

This paper establishes and extends a theoretical bridge between the classical economic con-cept of marginal utility and two modern machine-learning constructs: matrix factorization and the Key–Value (KV) cache of transformer language models. We show that the singular value spectrum of a rating matrix constitutes a diminishing marginal utility schedule for la-tent factors; that the eigenvalue spectrum of the projected covariance operator W V W ⊤ is the marginal utility schedule for the model’s learned representation; that KV cache eviction and low-rank cache compression are instances of constrained utility maximization under a mem-ory budget; and that all three frameworks collapse into a single allocation rule: retain the top k∗ dimensions where the eigenvalue equals the shadow price of the binding resource con-straint. We then apply this framework to a concrete industrial deployment context involving the automated extraction of structured information from geo-mining documents, where the theory motivates a multi-pass inference protocol, a layer-wise model merging procedure based on TIES (Trim, Elect sign, Merge), and a model selection policy grounded in sovereignty and frugality criteria. A preliminary benchmark on fifty Armorican Massif documents, pro-jected to the merged sovereign architecture from the empirical behavior of its component models, suggests that the merged architecture can achieve competitive extraction quality while reducing per-inference energy consumption and eliminating regulatory dependencies on non-European cloud providers. The revision introduces a multi-objective frugality scalar-ization in quality, drift, and energy, with a Conditional Value-at-Risk (CVaR) tail-risk term on drift, which formalizes the tradeoff between the three metrics and calibrates the operator frugality frontier. We further report the executed Phase 2 of the project, which addresses three concrete research questions on a partner-released 973-document corpus of uranium-exploration filings: whether a frugal classifier can substitute for a proprietary classification call, whether a multimodal text-plus-image approach can recover the coordinate reference system, and whether uniform-density TIES merging preserves image-conditional discrimi-nation after weight-space integration. The headline measurement is a frugality validation on the first of these questions: an 11.2-million-parameter hierarchical ResNet18 classifier, trained in approximately five minutes on a single Colab GPU, attains 90.0% level-1 accuracy on a 170-document test set held out from the Orano uranium-exploration corpus (Athabasca Basin and Namibia uranium belt), against 92.0% for Gemini 2.5 Pro on a 50-document human audit of the same corpus, with an inference latency of 2.62 ms per card against approximately 2,000 ms for the proprietary API and a per-card cost effectively reduced to zero. The full extraction-stage benchmark on the 200-document stratified BRGM corpus with Φl-calibrated TIES merging and LoRA fine-tuning, originally planned within Phase 2 in the working paper v8.2 (April 2026), is reclassified as the scale-up phase of the project and remains an empirical extension of the present work. A diagnostic of the uniform-density TIES merge on the BRGM Brittany cards reveals a reproducible degenerate mode, in which the merged model returns token-identical outputs across five geographically distinct districts while declaring high confidence, and supplies empirical motivation for the layer-wise Φl cal-ibration of Section 10. Re-executing the merge under the calibrated densities removes the 

> ∗

INSEEC Business School / Omnes Education, Paris. 

1arXiv:2609.20068v1 [cs.AI] 17 Sep 2026 degenerate signature on the same diagnostic sample and restores image-conditional discrim-ination, which corroborates the architectural prediction on that sample; replication at scale-up remains outstanding. The document parsing approach developed by a project partner is presented but has not yet been integrated at the time of writing; the points of antici-pated interface between the two approaches are identified. Implications for value-sensitive AI architecture, sustainable inference, and axiological displacement are discussed. 

Keywords. marginal utility; matrix factorization; KV cache; transformer attention; opti-mal stopping; model merging; TIES; CVaR; hierarchical classification; sovereign AI; frugal inference; axiological displacement. 

2Contents 

1 Introduction 52 Background 6

2.1 Marginal utility: core definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72.2 Matrix factorization: core definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

3 The marginal utility of latent factors 8

3.1 Singular values as marginal information contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83.2 The elbow as saturation point . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83.3 A utility-theoretic rank-selection criterion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

4 The W V W ⊤ operator 9

4.1 Definition and algebraic context . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94.2 Appearances in transformer architectures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 4.3 Connection to SVD (Singular value decomposition) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 

5 The KV cache as a marginal utility problem 10 

5.1 Mechanics of the KV cache . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 5.2 The marginal utility of a cached token . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 5.3 W V W ⊤ and the information content of the cache . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 

6 Low-rank cache compression via W V W ⊤ 12 

6.1 The compression problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 6.2 The utility–cost tradeoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 6.3 Structural analogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 

7 Heterogeneous utility across heads and layers 13 

7.1 Head-level heterogeneity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 7.2 Layer-wise marginal utility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 

8 Sovereign model selection: criteria and exclusions 14 9 Multi-pass inference and the empirical MU score 17 

9.1 The inference pipeline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 9.2 The empirical MU score . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 9.3 The output schema . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 9.4 Sequential stopping: formal statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 

10 TIES model merging as utility-maximizing weight-space integration 19 

10.1 Motivation and framing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 10.2 The three-step procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 10.3 Layer-wise calibration via Φl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 

11 Benchmark: sovereign merging versus state-of-the-art models 21 

11.1 Experimental design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 11.2 Validation infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 11.3 Metrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 11.4 Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 11.4.1 Construction of the scale-up projections: methodology and uncertainty . . 24 11.4.2 Comparative analysis across benchmarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 11.5 Multi-objective frugality: the quality–energy–drift frontier . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 11.6 The economic and sovereign case for model merging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 312 Measured frugality validation: a hierarchical classifier on the Orano uranium-exploration corpus 29 

12.1 Motivation and scope of the measurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 12.2 Architecture: hierarchical ResNet18 as an instance of Proposition 2 . . . . . . . . 30 12.3 Training and inference protocol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 12.4 Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 12.5 Interpretation under the unified allocation rule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 12.6 Empirical motivation for adaptive-density TIES: a degenerate-mode diagnostic . 32 12.7 Limitations and scope of the conclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 

13 The document parsing approach: architecture of anticipated interface and comparative protocol 35 

13.1 The partner pipeline: summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 13.2 The LLM-based pipeline: positioning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 13.3 Architecture of anticipated interface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 13.4 Comparative protocol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 

14 Axiological implications 37 

14.1 The hidden utility model in attention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 14.2 Axiological displacement in cache compression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 14.3 Sustainable inference and the information–energy tradeoff . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 

15 Synthesis: a unified allocation rule 39 16 Open problems 40 17 Conclusion 41 List of acronyms 42 A Proof of Proposition 2 46 

41 Introduction 

Matrix factorization (MF) has become a cornerstone of modern machine learning, underpinning recommender systems [Koren et al., 2009, Rendle et al., 2009], natural-language embeddings, and knowledge-graph completion. The dominant contemporary architecture, the transformer [Vaswani et al., 2017], operates through attention mechanisms that admit a similar factorization interpretation, as developed below. Yet the dominant formulations of MF and of attention remain agnostic to the economic and behavioral properties of the agents whose data they model. Marginal utility (MU), the additional satisfaction derived from one more unit of a good, is one of the oldest and most robust constructs in microeconomic theory. Its diminishing form, formalized by Gossen [1854] and integrated into neoclassical economics by Jevons [1871], Menger, and Walras, describes a near-universal empirical regularity: beyond a threshold, each additional unit of any good contributes less to welfare than the preceding one. Two developments sharpen and extend this analogy. The operator W V W ⊤ appears through-out modern deep learning: in transformer value projections, in the output covariance of attention heads, in the effective information content of low-rank adapters (LoRA), and in the statisti-cal mechanics of representation learning. Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) [Hu et al., 2022] is a parameter-efficient fine-tuning technique that avoids updating all weights of a pre-trained model. Instead, for a weight matrix W0 ∈ Rd×k that is kept frozen during fine-tuning, LoRA introduces a learnable additive correction ∆W = BA , where B ∈ Rd×r and A ∈ Rr×k are two low-rank matrices with r ≪ min( d, k ). The adapted weight is therefore W = W0 + BA , and only B and 

A are updated during training. The number of trainable parameters is r(d + k) rather than dk :with r = 8 and d = k = 4096 (typical for a 7-billion-parameter model), this reduces the trainable parameter count by a factor of more than 250. The connection to the W V W ⊤ framework is direct: the product BA is itself a rank-r matrix, and its Fisher information, the curvature of the training loss with respect to the adapter parameters, takes the form W V W ⊤ with W = A⊤ and 

V the gradient signal, placing LoRA rank selection within the same marginal-utility framework as the KV-cache compression problems treated in Sections 6–7. Its eigenvalue spectrum directly encodes what the marginal utility framework predicts: a hierarchy of latent dimensions ordered by decreasing information value. The Key–Value (KV) cache, the mechanism by which autoregressive transformers store Key and Value matrices for previously seen tokens, is simultaneously a memory resource-allocation problem and an information-economics problem. Every cached token occupies finite memory; the marginal utility of retaining the k-th token is its expected contribution to future attention computations. Together, these frameworks offer a principled, economics-grounded vocabulary for questions that current AI engineering addresses through heuristics: how much cache is enough? Which tokens to evict? At what rank should value matrices be compressed? How does compression interact with downstream task utility? 

Related work and positioning. The framework developed in this paper operates at the intersection of three research traditions that have each addressed a fragment of the problem without bridging them. The first tradition, rooted in recommender systems and collaborative filtering, has long recognized the economic interpretation of matrix factorization: latent factors as preference dimensions, singular values as information content, regularization as complexity cost [Koren et al., 2009, Rendle et al., 2009, Adomavicius and Tuzhilin, 2005]. This literature has produced sophisticated allocation rules within the factorization setting but has not extended them to attention-based architectures, where the factorization reappears implicitly in the value projection but is treated as an engineering artifact rather than an economic object. The second tradition, emerging from systems research on transformer inference efficiency, has addressed KV cache management as a memory–latency tradeoff [Pope et al., 2023, Kwon et al., 2023, Xiao et al., 2024, Zhang et al., 2023]. This work has produced effective eviction heuristics (H2O, 5StreamingLLM, Scissorhands) and architectural innovations (PagedAttention, multi-query attention), but treats the cache as a systems resource rather than as an economic inventory subject to utility-maximization principles. The third tradition, grounded in the green AI and value-sensitive architecture literatures, has articulated the ethical and environmental stakes of inference-time resource allocation [Strubell et al., 2019, Schwartz et al., 2020, Bender et al., 2021, Bommasani et al., 2021]. This literature has successfully placed energy consumption and value alignment on the research agenda but has not provided the mathematical machinery to translate these normative concerns into architectural decisions. The contribution of this paper is to occupy the empty intersection of these three traditions: it borrows the utility-theoretic vocabulary of the first, applies it to the resource-allocation problem of the second, and thereby operationalizes the normative framework of the third. The resulting unification is not a synthesis of existing results but the construction of an algebraic bridge (the W V W ⊤ operator) whose eigenvalue spectrum makes the implicit utility function of a trained model observable, auditable, and comparable with the operator’s explicit preferences. To the best of the author’s knowledge, no prior work has established this bridge or used it to derive the allocation rule of Proposition 2. This paper makes five contributions. The first is purely theoretical: it proves that the three frameworks of matrix factorization, KV cache management, and representation learn-ing via W V W ⊤ are all instances of the same resource-allocation problem, unified by the rule 

k∗ = max {k : λk ≥ γ} (Proposition 2). The second is architectural: it shows how the theory motivates a specific model merging procedure (TIES) whose layer-wise parameters are calibrated by the layer utility function Φl (Section 10). The third is empirical, in the projection sense: it presents a preliminary benchmark comparing the merged sovereign architecture against propri-etary and open-source state-of-the-art alternatives on a geo-mining extraction task (Section 11), and introduces a multi-objective frugality scalarization with a CVaR tail-risk term that formal-izes the quality–drift–energy tradeoff (Section 11.5). The fourth is empirical, in the measurement sense: it reports the executed Phase 2 of the project (Section 12), which addresses three research questions arising from the partner release of a 973-document uranium-exploration corpus and a corresponding human-audit baseline – whether a frugal classifier can substitute for the propri-etary classification call, whether a multimodal text-plus-image approach can recover the coordi-nate reference system, and whether uniform-density TIES merging preserves image-conditional discrimination. On the first question, an 11.2-million-parameter hierarchical ResNet18 classifier reaches Gemini 2.5 Pro accuracy at level 1 within two percentage points, approaches it at level 2 while remaining below it (55.9% against 60.0%), and reduces inference latency by a factor of approximately 765 at zero marginal cost, providing the first measured (rather than projected) confirmation of the frugality argument at a stage of the pipeline. On the third, a uniform-density TIES merge diagnostic on a five-card BRGM Brittany sample supplies empirical motivation for the layer-wise Φl calibration, and re-execution of the merge under the calibrated densities re-moves the degenerate signature on that sample, providing first corroborating evidence for the calibration ahead of the scale-up extraction benchmark. The fifth is applied: it situates the theoretical framework within a concrete industrial deployment, identifies the interface with a partner document-parsing pipeline that has not yet been integrated at the time of writing, and characterizes the points of anticipated interface between the two approaches (Section 13). 

# 2 Background 

Notation. The symbol λ is used in this paper in three semantically distinct senses: (i) λj

denotes the j-th eigenvalue of the operator under discussion and constitutes the marginal utility schedule of Propositions 1 and 2; (ii) in equation (3), λ > 0 is the regularisation coefficient of the matrix-factorisation loss; (iii) in equation (35), λM > 0 is the operator risk-aversion coefficient of the multi-objective frugality scalarisation. The shadow price of the binding budget constraint, 6which plays the unified role across all three frameworks, is denoted γ throughout, never λ.

## 2.1 Marginal utility: core definitions 

Let U : Rn → R be a differentiable utility function over a consumption bundle x = ( x1, . . . , x n).The marginal utility of good i is 

MU i(x) = ∂U ∂x i

. (1) Diminishing marginal utility (DMU) holds when ∂2U/∂x 2 

> i

< 0 for all i [Mas-Colell et al., 1995, ch. 3]. This concavity encodes the empirical regularity that agents allocate attention and re-sources with decreasing intensity as a category becomes saturated. In continuous-time allocation, DMU produces the familiar equal-marginal-utility condition: at the consumer optimum, marginal utility per unit cost is equalized across all goods, which is the Lagrangian first-order condition for utility maximization under a budget constraint. In discrete settings, which correspond to the integer-valued problems of rank selection and token eviction, the optimality condition becomes instead a threshold rule: keep consuming good i as long as its marginal utility exceeds its price, and stop as soon as this condition is violated. It is precisely this discrete threshold rule that reappears, algebraically rather than by analogy, in the spectral decomposition of W V W ⊤.Common utility specifications relevant to the matrix factorization context are summarized in Table 1. Table 1: Utility specifications and their properties in the matrix factorization context.                                 

> Form Expression DMU? Notes Linear U=w⊤xNo Constant marginal returns Log U=P
> iαiln xiYes Logarithmic transform of the Cobb-Douglas form CES U= ( P
> ixρi)1/ρ Yes ( ρ < 1)Flexible elasticity Quadratic U=w⊤x−x⊤Qx Yes ( Q≻0)Natural for MF loss

## 2.2 Matrix factorization: core definitions 

Given an observed ratings matrix R ∈ Rm×n (m users, n items), standard MF seeks a low-rank approximation 

R ≈ P Q ⊤, P ∈ Rm×k, Q ∈ Rn×k, k ≪ min( m, n ). (2) The canonical regularized least-squares objective is 

L = X

> (u,i )∈Ω



rui − p⊤ 

> u

qi

2

+ λ  ∥P ∥2 

> F

+ ∥Q∥2

> F

 , (3) where Ω denotes observed entries and λ > 0 is a regularization coefficient. Alternative ranking-oriented formulations such as BPR [Rendle et al., 2009] optimize pairwise preferences directly and are equivalent under mild transformations. In equation (3), the regularization term λ(∥P ∥2 

> F

+

∥Q∥2 

> F

) plays the role of a budget constraint: it penalizes the total “complexity” of the factor matrices, just as a budget constraint penalizes total spending. The Lagrange multiplier λ is therefore the shadow price of model complexity, which is the direct analog of the shadow price 

γ in the unified stopping rule derived below. The singular value decomposition (SVD) of R is the factorization 

R = U ΣV ⊤, (4) where U ∈ Rm×m and V ∈ Rn×n are orthogonal matrices whose columns are, respectively, the left and right singular vectors of R, and Σ ∈ Rm×n is a rectangular diagonal matrix whose 7diagonal entries σ1 ≥ σ2 ≥ · · · ≥ σmin( m,n ) ≥ 0 are the singular values of R, ordered by decreasing magnitude. In the thin (or economy) form used throughout this paper, U ∈ Rm×r, Σ ∈ Rr×r, and 

V ∈ Rn×r with r = min( m, n ), retaining only the non-zero singular values. The SVD provides the theoretical bedrock for matrix factorization: the Eckart–Young–Mirsky theorem [Eckart and Young, 1936] states that the rank-k approximation 

Rk =

> k

X

> j=1

σj uj v⊤ 

> j

(5) is the unique minimizer of ∥R − ˆR∥F over all matrices ˆR of rank at most k, where uj and vj

are the j-th columns of U and V respectively. The approximation error of Rk in the Frobenius norm equals the tail sum of squared singular values: ∥R − Rk∥2 

> F

= Prj=k+1 σ2 

> j

, a quantity that decreases with each additional factor retained and whose increments σ2 

> j

form a non-increasing sequence: the algebraic signature of diminishing marginal utility that Section 3 develops in full. 

# 3 The marginal utility of latent factors 

## 3.1 Singular values as marginal information contributions 

The reconstruction error of a rank-k approximation satisfies 

∥R − Rk∥2 

> F

=

> min( m,n )

X

> j=k+1

σ2 

> j

. (6) The marginal contribution of adding the (k + 1) -th factor is therefore 

∆k = ∥R − Rk∥2 

> F

− ∥ R − Rk+1 ∥2 

> F

= σ2

> k+1

. (7) Since singular values are ordered decreasingly, the sequence (∆ k)k≥1 = ( σ21 , σ 22 , . . . ) is non-increasing: 

∆1 ≥ ∆2 ≥ · · · ≥ ∆min( m,n ) ≥ 0. (8) This is exactly the structure of diminishing marginal utility. Each successive latent factor pro-vides weakly less additional explanatory power than its predecessor; the “consumption good” is the latent factor, and the “utility” is variance explained. The economic interpretation is direct. A user who has already been characterized by k latent preference dimensions obtains less new information from a (k + 1) -th dimension than from the 

k-th, because the most informative directions of variation in the preference space are exhausted first by the dominant singular vectors. This is the matrix factorization analog of the satiation of a preference: the first latent factor explains taste for “action versus romance”; the second explains taste for “recent versus classic”; and so on down to increasingly niche axes of variation. 

## 3.2 The elbow as saturation point 

The classical elbow method for choosing k has the following economic interpretation: 

k∗ = min 

(

k : σ2

> k+1

σ21

< ε elbow 

)

, (9) where εelbow is a relative-magnitude threshold (set to 0.05 in the industrial pipeline described in Section 9). This is analogous to the consumer’s optimal stopping rule: continue consuming (adding factors) until marginal utility no longer justifies marginal cost (model complexity, over-fitting risk, computational burden). Graphically, the plot of σ2 

> k

against k exhibits a sharp break, the “elbow” or “scree”, at k∗, after which each additional singular value contributes negligibly to the total variance explained. 83.3 A utility-theoretic rank-selection criterion 

Let the total utility of a rank-k model be defined via a concave aggregator f :

U (k) = 

> k

X

> j=1

f (σ2 

> j

), f ′′ < 0. (10) The optimal rank maximizes U (k) − c · k, where c is the unit cost of an additional factor (in bits of memory, floating-point operations, or watt-hours of inference energy). Setting the first-order condition yields 

f ′(σ2 

> k∗

) = c, (11) a micro-founded criterion that generalizes the elbow heuristic to cases where the cost of com-plexity is heterogeneous or non-linear. When f is the identity (linear aggregation), equation (11) reduces to the condition σ2 

> k∗

= c, and when costs are uniform across factors, the criterion is equivalent to the elbow rule. The value of the more general formulation is that it accommodates cases where energy costs are non-uniform across computation steps, which is the typical situation in multi-head attention: different layers incur different memory bandwidth costs, so the shadow price γ should be layer-specific rather than uniform. 

# 4 The W V W ⊤ operator 

## 4.1 Definition and algebraic context 

Let V ∈ Rn×d be a data matrix (tokens × embedding dimension) and W ∈ Rk×d a projection matrix (the value weight matrix WV in attention, or any learned projection). The projected Gram matrix is 

M = W V W ⊤ ∈ Rk×k. (12) Its eigendecomposition 

M = QΛQ⊤, Λ = diag( λ1, λ 2, . . . , λ k), λ1 ≥ λ2 ≥ · · · ≥ λk ≥ 0, (13) reveals the principal axes of the projected representation space, with eigenvalues encoding the variance (information) captured along each axis. 

Proposition 1 (Marginal utility schedule of a projected representation; corollary of Eckart–Y-oung–Mirsky) . Let M = W V W ⊤ ∈ Rk×k admit the eigendecomposition M = QΛQ⊤ with 

λ1 ≥ λ2 ≥ · · · ≥ λk ≥ 0. Then the sequence (λj )kj=1 is the marginal utility schedule of the projection in the following precise sense: the squared Frobenius error incurred by retaining only the top-j eigendirections of M and discarding the remainder equals P 

> i>j

λi, so the marginal con-tribution of the j-th eigendirection to the reconstruction of the projected Gram matrix is exactly 

λj , and by monotonicity of the eigenvalue ordering these contributions are non-increasing in j.Proof. The statement is a direct application of the Eckart–Young–Mirsky theorem [Eckart and Young, 1936] to the symmetric positive semidefinite operator M . Let Mj = Pji=1 λiqiq⊤ 

> i

denote the best rank-j approximation of M in Frobenius norm. Then ∥M − Mj ∥2 

> F

= P 

> i>j

λ2 

> i

for the Frobenius norm on symmetric operators; for the nuclear-norm variant relevant to the information content of the projected representation, ∥M − Mj ∥∗ = P 

> i>j

λi. In either case the marginal decrement when passing from rank j − 1 to rank j is a monotone non-increasing function of j,which is the algebraic signature of diminishing marginal utility. The novelty here is interpretive rather than mathematical: the result is standard, and we emphasise it only because the operator 

M = W V W ⊤ makes the schedule directly readable off a trained model’s weight matrix, which is the use of Eckart–Young we exploit in Sections 5–6. 9Remark on novelty. Proposition 1 is not a new mathematical result and should not be read as claiming to be one. It is a repositioning of the classical Eckart–Young–Mirsky theorem within an economic vocabulary that makes two subsequent moves possible: the treatment of rank selection as a utility-maximisation problem in Section 3.3, and the treatment of the KV cache as an inventory problem governed by the same algebra in Section 5. The contribution of the paper is the unification, formalised as Proposition 2 and proved in Appendix A, not the individual steps. 

## 4.2 Appearances in transformer architectures 

The form W V W ⊤ recurs across multiple transformer components, as summarized in Table 2. Table 2: Occurrences of W V W ⊤ in transformer architectures. Context W V Interpretation Self-attention value output 

WV ∈ Rdv ×d Token embeddings 

X

Covariance of projected values Output projection WO ∈ Rd×dv Attention output A Effective information in output space LoRA adapter BA (rank-r prod-uct) Gradient signal Fisher information of low-rank update KV cache compres-sion Compression ma-trix C

Cached K or V Residual information af-ter compression Layer normaliza-tion Scale Γ Pre-norm activa-tions Normalized representa-tion covariance Each row of Table 2 corresponds to a distinct design choice in a transformer architecture, yet all share the same algebraic structure. This algebraic ubiquity is not accidental: it reflects the fact that the transformer is, at its core, a sequence of projections and re-projections of the token sequence, and each such projection compresses and re-weights the information according to the model’s learned preferences. The W V W ⊤ operator makes these preferences explicit in spectral form. 

## 4.3 Connection to SVD (Singular value decomposition) 

If V = U ΣV ⊤ (thin SVD), then 

W V W ⊤ = ( W U )Σ 2(W U )⊤. (14) The eigenvalues of W V W ⊤ are therefore the squared singular values of W U , rotated into the projected space. Every result from Section 3 applies to the projected value space: the marginal contribution of the j-th cache dimension is σ2 

> j

(W V ), and the optimal compression rank is the k∗

minimizing cost-adjusted utility. Equation (14) also establishes that the eigenvalues of W V W ⊤

are bounded by those of V ⊤V scaled by the operator norm of W : no projection can create information that was not present in the data, which formalizes the intuition that compression can only destroy utility, never create it. 

# 5 The KV cache as a marginal utility problem 

## 5.1 Mechanics of the KV cache 

In autoregressive generation, for each transformer layer l and attention head h, the model com-putes 

K(l,h ) 

> t

= xtW (l,h ) 

> K

, V (l,h ) 

> t

= xtW (l,h ) 

> V

. (15) 10 During generation of token t + 1 , the attention operation requires all previous keys and values: 

O(l,h ) 

> t

= softmax qtK(l,h )⊤

> 1: t

√dh

!

V (l,h )1: t . (16) The KV cache stores {K(l,h )1: t , V (l,h )1: t } for all layers and heads, growing linearly with sequence length t. Systems-oriented treatments of this scaling problem [Pope et al., 2023] establish a Pareto frontier between latency and memory utilization in which multi-query attention, shared key/value heads, and partitioning strategies trade against one another; the theoretical development below treats the same tradeoff in information-economic rather than systems terms. For a model with L layers, H heads, and head dimension dh, the size of each cache side (K or V) is 

Cache side (t) = L · H · dh · t · sizeof(dtype) , (17) and the total K+V cache is twice this amount. For a 7-billion-parameter model processing a 2 048-token context with 32 layers, 32 heads, and head dimension 128 in bfloat16 (2 bytes), equation (17) gives approximately 0.54 GB per side per sequence. At batch size 8 on a 40 GB GPU, one cache side consumes 4.3 GB, leaving 35.7 GB to be shared between the paired cache side, the model weights, and the activations. The tension between context length and available memory is therefore not incidental but structural, and the eviction problem it creates is directly a resource-allocation problem in the sense of Section 2.1. 

## 5.2 The marginal utility of a cached token 

Definition 1. The utility of the full cache at time t is U (t) = E[U (generation | K1: t, V 1: t)] , where 

U is a task-specific quality metric. The marginal utility of caching token i is 

MU i = U (full cache ) − U (cache \ { i}). (18) Since tokens that are frequently attended to contribute more to output quality, the attention weight at,i serves as an empirical proxy for MU i. The H2O eviction policy [Zhang et al., 2023] formalizes this: retain the top-k tokens by cumulative attention score, evicting the rest. This is exactly the consumer’s optimal stopping rule applied to the token inventory: retain a token as long as its marginal utility (attention share) exceeds the opportunity cost of the memory it occupies. 

## 5.3 W V W ⊤ and the information content of the cache 

The contribution of token i to the attention output is ∆i = at,i · xiW (l,h ) 

> V

. Aggregating over all tokens, the expected output covariance is 

E

h

OO ⊤i

= WV

X

> i

a2 

> t,i

xix⊤

> i

!

W ⊤ 

> V

= WV ˆV W ⊤ 

> V

, (19) where ˆV is the attention-weighted outer-product covariance of token embeddings. The eigen-values of WV ˆV W ⊤ 

> V

are therefore the marginal utility schedule of the cache: the j-th eigenvalue measures how much the j-th representational direction of the value projection contributes to the expected output, weighted by the actual attention distribution over the current context. 11 6 Low-rank cache compression via W V W ⊤

## 6.1 The compression problem 

Instead of storing the full value cache V1: t ∈ Rt×dh , we seek a compressed representation ˜V1: t ∈

Rt×r with r ≪ dh:

˜V = V U r, Ur ∈ Rdh×r : top-r eigenvectors of V ⊤V. (20) The compression error is 

WV ˆV W ⊤ 

> V

− WV ˜V ˜V ⊤W ⊤  

> V∗

=

> dh

X

> j=r+1

λj



WV ˆV W ⊤

> V



, (21) the tail sum of eigenvalues of WV ˆV W ⊤ 

> V

, which is the total foregone utility from compression at rank r.

## 6.2 The utility–cost tradeoff 

Define the compression benefit B(r) and cost C(r) as 

B(r) = 

Prj=1 λj

Pdh 

> j=1

λj

, C(r) = 2 · L · H · t · r · sizeof(dtype) . (22) The optimal compression rank maximizes 

r∗ = arg max  

> r

[B(r) − γ · C(r)] , (23) where γ is the shadow price of memory. The first-order condition yields 

λr∗



WV ˆV W ⊤

> V



= γ, (24) which is the exact form of the rank-selection criterion of Section 3.3, applied to the KV cache. The shadow price γ in equation (24) has a direct physical interpretation: it is the value, in terms of output quality, of one additional unit of GPU memory. When memory is plentiful, γ is low and r∗ is high (keep more dimensions); when the GPU is nearly full, γ is high and r∗ is low (compress aggressively). The first-order condition (24) is written with continuous differentiation for compactness, but the compression rank r is integer-valued. The correct optimality condition is therefore not a tangency but a discrete threshold rule, consistent with the general formulation of Section 2.1: retain eigendirection j in the compressed representation if and only if λj (W V W ⊤) ≥

γ, and stop as soon as this condition is first violated. The continuous FOC λr∗ = γ is the boundary case where the marginal direction is exactly indifferent; the discrete solution is 

r∗ = max {j : λj (W V W ⊤) ≥ γ}, (25) which coincides with the rule of Proposition 2 applied to the eigenvalue sequence. The continuous formulation (24) is retained in the text because it makes the tangency interpretation transparent and because the integer slack λr∗+1 < γ ≤ λr∗ is small in all practical configurations (a single eigendirection of typical magnitude 10 −3 to 10 −2 of the total spectrum). For the sensitivity analyses of Section 11.5, the discrete formulation (25) is the one used. Whether read continuously or discretely, this is the machine-learning analog of the classical principle of decreasing returns to scale: the marginal value of additional memory decreases as capacity grows. 12 Table 3: Structural analogy between matrix factorization, KV cache, and W V W ⊤.Concept MF KV cache W V W ⊤

“Consumption good” Latent factor Cached token/dim. Eigenvector of 

W V W ⊤

“Utility” σ2 

> j

Attention score at,i Eigenvalue λj

Diminishing MU σ21 ≥ σ22 ≥ · · · Decaying attention λ1 ≥ λ2 ≥ · · · 

Optimal stopping Elbow rank k∗ Eviction threshold r∗ from FOC Budget constraint Regularization λ GPU memory M Memory cost C(r)

## 6.3 Structural analogy 

Table 3 unifies the three frameworks discussed so far. 

Note on FOC. The first-order condition (FOC) for the optimal compression rank r∗ is ob-tained by differentiating the net benefit B(r) − γ · C(r) with respect to r and setting the result to zero, yielding λr∗ (W V W ⊤) = γ (equation (24) in Section 6.2). Here λr∗ is the r∗-th eigen-value of the projected covariance operator, and γ is the shadow price of memory: the rule says to keep compressing until the marginal information value of the next dimension exactly equals its marginal memory cost. This is the discrete analog of the consumer’s tangency condition 

MU i/p i = const at the utility-maximizing bundle. 

# 7 Heterogeneous utility across heads and layers 

## 7.1 Head-level heterogeneity 

The W V W ⊤ spectrum varies dramatically across attention heads, reflecting genuine functional specialization [Voita et al., 2019]. Syntactic heads (typically lower layers) exhibit nearly rank-1 value matrices (single dominant eigenvalue), implying minimal marginal utility beyond the first component. Semantic heads (middle to upper layers) are fuller rank. Copy heads (last layers) are nearly degenerate. A uniform compression ratio across all heads (the standard engineering approach) is, in the language of this paper, axiologically incoherent: it treats all representational dimensions as equally valuable regardless of their actual contribution to output quality. A utility-theoretic approach sets compression rank per head as a function of the head’s eigenvalue spread, measured for example by a Herfindahl–Hirschman Index over eigenvalues: 

HHI h =

> dh

X

> j=1

 λ(h)

> j

P 

> j′

λ(h)

> j′



> 2

. (26) A high HHI indicates a highly concentrated spectrum (close to rank-1), justifying aggressive compression; a low HHI indicates a diffuse, full-rank spectrum, requiring a higher r∗ to avoid significant utility loss. 

## 7.2 Layer-wise marginal utility 

Definition 2. The layer-wise information value of layer l is 

Φl = 1

H

> H

X

> h=1

λ1



W (l,h ) 

> V

ˆV (l,h )W (l,h )⊤

> V



. (27) 

The sequence (Φ l)Ll=1 is the layer-wise marginal utility schedule of the cache. 

13 Empirically, this schedule peaks at critical processing layers (typically l ≈ L/ 3 and l ≈ 2L/ 3)and is lowest at input/output layers. A principled KV-cache budget allocates more memory to high-Φl layers and compresses aggressively at low-Φl layers. In the geo-mining context described in Section 9, the middle layers of the merged model carry the highest Φl values because they are responsible for recognizing the technical geological terminology, coordinate systems, and carto-graphic conventions that constitute the core semantic content of the documents being analyzed. The first few layers process raw visual and textual features, while the last few generate the output tokens of the structured JSON response; neither requires the full-rank value projection that the middle layers need. 

# 8 Sovereign model selection: criteria and exclusions 

The application of the marginal utility framework to a concrete industrial context raises a prior question that is often treated as purely operational but is in fact deeply economic: which models may enter the feasible set at all? In the geo-mining context, the feasible set is not the full space of available language models but the subset that satisfies simultaneously a set of regulatory, epistemic, and resource constraints. The selection rule applied here is the following. Only models released under the Apache Software License version 2.0, or equivalent fully permissive open-source licenses (MIT, Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 or equivalent), are eligible for deployment in a sovereign industrial context. This requirement is not merely a matter of legal prudence: it corresponds to a hard constraint on the interpretability and auditability of the model’s learned utility function. Aclosed-source model deployed behind a proprietary API offers no access to the weight matrices 

W that define W V W ⊤, making it impossible to apply the compression, merging, and frugal-ity optimization procedures derived in this paper. The Apache 2.0 requirement is therefore a necessary condition for the theory to be operationally meaningful. A second constraint, concerning jurisdictional sovereignty, is more restrictive than legal-framework compatibility alone. In the nuclear sector, documents processed by the pipeline may contain sensitive geospatial and engineering information whose transmission is subject to French and European regulations on dual-use technologies (Règlement CE 428/2009), as well as to the Corpus operator’s own export-control obligations. The relevant criterion is therefore not the nominal compatibility of a jurisdiction with the GDPR or the EU AI Act, but the operational possibility of running the model entirely on infrastructure under the operator’s direct control, without any runtime dependency on servers subject to foreign legal process. The US Cloud Act 

(2018) and Chinese national intelligence laws (2017) both create compellable disclosure regimes that apply to their respective domestic cloud providers regardless of the geographic location of the data, and both are incompatible with nuclear-sector data handling requirements. The criterion therefore reduces to a purely operational test: the model weights must be available under a permissive open-source license and must be deployable on hardware physically located within the European Union and operationally controlled by the Corpus operator or its authorised subcontractors. Models satisfying this test are admissible regardless of the geographic origin of their training organisation; models failing it are inadmissible regardless of whether their training organisation is based in a jurisdiction formally compatible with the GDPR. This reformulation resolves an apparent tension in the retained set: Gemma 4 26B-A4B , whose training organisation (Google DeepMind) is subject to the Cloud Act, is admissible because its Apache 2.0 weights can be cached on European infrastructure and run without runtime dependency on Google services; 

DeepSeek-V3 and InternVL2 , whose weights are also openly released, are inadmissible because their training pipelines and the organisations that produced them are subject to compellable disclosure regimes that create residual risk even after local deployment (for example, through training-time data contamination that cannot be audited ex post from the weights alone). A third constraint, motivated by the frugality objective developed in Section 11.6 and Sec-14 tion 14.3, limits model size to at most eight billion parameters, with one admitted exception justified below. This bound corresponds to the inference capacity of a single consumer-grade GPU with 16 GB of VRAM (for example, an NVIDIA RTX 4080 or A10G), ensuring that the merged model can be deployed locally without cloud dependency. Models requiring distributed inference or proprietary hardware are excluded on cost and sovereignty grounds. The excep-tion concerns Gemma 4 26B-A4B, released under a full Apache 2.0 license in 2026 [Gemma Team et al., 2026], which qualifies on all other criteria and, being a Mixture-of-Experts model that activates only about four billion parameters per token, sits close to the eight-billion bound in compute terms even though its total parameter count exceeds it; the exception is treated explicitly in Table 4 and in the paragraphs that follow. Table 4 summarizes the resulting model landscape, distinguishing retained from excluded models. Table 4: Model selection: retained and excluded models. License abbreviations: AL2 = Apache 2.0; ML = Meta Community License; GT = Gemma Terms of Use; PR = Proprietary; CC4 = CC-BY-4.0. Dagger ( †) denotes model released on or after the date of the original paper submission (April 2, 2026) and added at revision. 

Model Origin License Parameters Vision Status SmolVLM-500M-Instruct HuggingFace (FR) AL2 500M Yes Retained Idefics2-8B HuggingFace (FR) AL2 8B Yes Retained Mistral-7B-Instruct v0.3 Mistral AI (FR) AL2 7B No Retained CroissantLLM-Chat Inria/Univs. (FR) CC4 1.3B No Retained Gemma 4 26B-A4B † Google DeepMind (US) AL2 26B (4B act.) Yes Retained Llama 3.x Meta (US) ML 8–70B Partial Excluded Gemma 2 / 3 / 3n Google (US) GT 1–27B Partial Excluded Gemma 4 E2B/E4B † Google DeepMind (US) AL2 2–5B Yes Excluded ⋆

Qwen 2.5 / QwQ Alibaba (CN) Various 0.5–72B Partial Excluded DeepSeek-V3 DeepSeek (CN) MIT ∗∗ 671B No Excluded InternVL2 Shanghai AI Lab (CN) MIT ∗∗ 1–108B Yes Excluded GPT-4o OpenAI (US) PR ∼200B est. Yes Excluded Gemini 2.5 Pro Google (US) PR Undisclosed Yes Excluded Gemini 2.5 Flash Google (US) PR Undisclosed Yes Excluded Gemini 3.5 Flash † Google (US) PR Undisclosed Yes Excluded Gemini 3.1 Flash-Lite † Google (US) PR Undisclosed Yes Excluded Claude 3.x / 4.x Anthropic (US) PR Undisclosed Yes Excluded    

> ∗∗ MIT license on weights only; server-side terms and geopolitical constraints apply. ⋆Gemma 4 edge variants (E2B/E4B) are Apache 2.0 but below the vision quality threshold required for dense document analysis at geological map scale; retained for lightweight pre-screening only (see Section 9.1).

Several exclusions and additions merit explicit justification. Llama 3.x (Meta) is excluded despite its strong performance on many benchmarks because the Meta Community License imposes restrictions on commercial use for applications with more than 700 million monthly active users, and more importantly, restricts derivative model development in ways that are incompatible with TIES-merging and LoRA fine-tuning for commercial deployment. The license is therefore not equivalent to Apache 2.0 even though it is sometimes referred to informally as “open source.” Gemma 2 and Gemma 3 (including Gemma 3n) are excluded because all releases up to and including Gemma 3 (March 2025) are governed by the Gemma Terms of Use, a custom license that prohibits uses competing with Google’s products, imposes behavioral constraints on model outputs, and can be modified by Google unilaterally. These features make Gemma 2 and 3 legally equivalent to a proprietary license for the purposes of this paper: the utility function of the model is not fully controlled by the operator but is partially defined by the licensor, which is 15 precisely the concern motivating the axiological displacement framework of Section 14. Gemma 3n specifically targets edge devices with reduced parameters (approximately 3.4 billion in its largest variant) and inherits the same Gemma Terms of Use, making it doubly ineligible: by license and by insufficient parameter count for dense document analysis at geological map scale. Gemma 4 26B-A4B is added to the retained set as a late addition at revision, following the release of the Gemma 4 family under a full Apache 2.0 license [Gemma Team et al., 2026]: the first Gemma generation to receive an OSI-approved open-source license with no custom clauses or behavioral restrictions. The Gemma 4 suite spans dense and Mixture-of-Experts architectures; the 26B-A4B variant retained here is a Mixture-of-Experts model with approximately twenty-six billion total parameters of which about four billion are active per token, supports text and image input natively, deploys in 4-bit quantisation on a single 40 GB A100, and is available for uncon-strained fine-tuning and redistribution. The sparse activation is what makes it admissible under the frugality constraint: its per-token compute is of the same order as a four-billion-parameter dense model. Gemma 4 edge models (E2B and E4B) are also Apache 2.0 but are excluded from the primary inference role on quality grounds: their parameter count (2–5 billion effective pa-rameters) and vision encoder, which was redesigned but benchmarks below Idefics2-8B on dense document OCR tasks, make them better suited to the lightweight first-pass screening role cur-rently occupied by SmolVLM-500M, where they could be evaluated as a replacement in future work. The Gemma 4 family’s geographic origin (Google DeepMind, US) would normally trigger scrutiny under the sovereignty constraint; however, Apache 2.0 eliminates the legal dependency on Google’s infrastructure, and local deployment of the weights carries no data residency concern. The weights are cached on European infrastructure as part of the project’s dataset management, removing any runtime dependency on Google services. The Gemini API-tier models are excluded because they are proprietary and their weights are not publicly available. Gemini 2.5 Pro (available June 2025, stable production tier), Gemini 2.5 Flash (available June 2025), Gemini 3.5 Flash (available May 2026), and Gemini 3.1 Flash-Lite (available May 2026) are all multimodal, but none provides access to the weight matrices that make the W V W ⊤ analysis operational, all require internet transmission of potentially controlled geo-mining documents to Google’s servers, and all incur API costs that compound with the volume of industrial deployments. The proprietary reference points actually executed in the Phase 1 benchmark of Section 11 are Gemini 3.5 Flash, GPT-4o, and Gemini 2.5 Flash (Table 6); Gemini 2.5 Pro and Gemini 3.1 Flash-Lite are retained in this selection table as part of the considered model universe but are not part of the executed benchmark. DeepSeek-V3 and InternVL2 are excluded on geopolitical grounds despite their MIT license on weights. Models trained on data subject to Chinese national security laws, or by organizations that could be compelled to provide backdoor access to model activations, cannot be used in the nuclear sector regardless of their formal license. This exclusion is treated as a hard constraint, not a preference. GPT-4o and Claude are excluded because they are proprietary, require internet connectivity to a non-European server, and do not provide access to the weight matrices that make the 

W V W ⊤ analysis operational. They are included in the benchmark as state-of-the-art reference points but are not candidates for production deployment. The retained models form a fully French/European ecosystem: SmolVLM-500M and Idefics2-8B from HuggingFace Paris [Laurençon et al., 2024], Mistral-7B-Instruct from Mistral AI Paris [Jiang et al., 2023], and CroissantLLM from a French academic consortium, complemented by Gemma 4 26B-A4B under Apache 2.0 [Gemma Team et al., 2026]. This geographic concentration is not merely symbolic: it reflects the deliberate construction of a sovereign AI stack whose supply chain, training data, and governance structures are subject to French and European law. 16 9 Multi-pass inference and the empirical MU score 

## 9.1 The inference pipeline 

The theoretical stopping rule of Section 3.3 is instantiated in a concrete inference pipeline for geo-mining document analysis. The broader observation that test-time compute allocation can substitute for parameter-count scaling [Snell et al., 2024] motivates the multi-pass architecture below: a smaller sovereign model invoked adaptively for up to three passes can match, under the marginal-utility allocation rule, the per-document performance of a larger proprietary single-pass model at a fraction of the energy cost. The pipeline processes images of geological maps, borehole logs, geophysical surveys, and satellite imagery, and produces for each image a structured JSON object containing the following fields: document type, geographic zone, bounding box with coordinate reference system, scale reference, mineral resources identified, geological formations, structural data (dip direction and angle), radiometric ages, infrastructure markers, an extensive legend description, a reconstruction prompt for visual synthesis, and a georeferencing confidence score. The pipeline proceeds in a maximum of three passes. In the first pass, the image is analyzed by SmolVLM-500M, which is fast and frugal and produces a preliminary extraction of the most visually salient elements. If the first-pass quality score (the empirical MU score, defined below) falls below the quality floor εfloor = 0 .05 , a second pass is initiated using Idefics2-8B [Laurençon et al., 2024], which has a larger context window and stronger performance on dense visual documents. If the second-pass score still falls below threshold, a third pass is initiated as an expert maximum-effort analysis. The passes are not independent: each pass is conditioned on the output of the previous pass, with missing fields explicitly identified in the prompt. The multi-pass architecture therefore implements a sequential conditional optimal stopping problem exactly as formalized in Section 9.4. Before each LLM pass, the image is analyzed by an OCR module (Tesseract) that extracts text elements printed on the document: coordinate grid labels, place names, legend items, scale indicators, and institutional headers. This OCR-extracted context is injected into the prompt as a structured paragraph, reducing the burden on the vision model and improving coordinate extraction accuracy from approximately 340 m average drift (without OCR) to approximately 85 m (with OCR) in preliminary experiments. The architecture leaves room for a re-legendage module, scheduled for the scale-up phase of the project, which will use a dedicated vision pass to re-interpret legend blocks after layout extraction by the partner document-parsing pipeline (Section 13); this module is currently the locus of the largest projected quality gain and is discussed again in Section 11.4. 

## 9.2 The empirical MU score 

Because the true eigenvalues λk of the attention operator are not directly observable at inference time (they depend on the model weights and the specific document), an empirical proxy called the MU score is computed from the structured output of each inference pass: 

ˆμk = X

> i

wi · 1[field i̸ = ∅] − α X

> p

1[pattern p violated ], (28) where the fields and their weights reflect the relative importance of each piece of georeferencing information. The weights are: mineral resources ( w = 0 .22 ), bounding box coordinates ( w =0.18 ), geographic zone ( w = 0 .13 ), scale reference ( w = 0 .12 ), geological formations ( w = 0 .10 ), coordinate reference system ( w = 0 .08 ), reconstruction prompt ( w = 0 .05 ), radiometric ages (w = 0 .05 ), structural data ( w = 0 .05 ), and high-confidence localization flag ( w = 0 .02 ). The weight vector sums to one, making ˆμk ∈ [0 , 1] under normal operation. The penalty term with coefficient α = 0 .10 subtracts from the score for each occurrence of a set of forbidden generic phrases (“les cercles représentent,” “les couleurs indiquent,” “Figure N,” 17 and similar) that indicate a low-quality, template-like response rather than genuine document analysis. The stopping rule is then: perform an additional pass if and only if ˆμk < ε floor , where 

εfloor = 0 .05 is a quality floor below which the extraction is considered inadequate regardless of the number of passes already performed. This is the retry-on-failure leg of the stopping rule; the saturation leg is treated below. The calibration εfloor = εelbow = 0 .05 is not stipulated by symmetry but identified empirically from the Phase 1 validation data. Proposition 2, applied to the sequential-inference stopping problem of Section 9.4, establishes that both thresholds are instances of the shadow-price ratio 

γc/ E[ˆ μ1]: the quality-floor threshold governs the decision to initiate an additional pass, and the elbow threshold governs the decision to halt on saturation. The two thresholds are therefore predicted by the theory to coincide whenever the marginal cost of a pass is uniform and the operator is risk-neutral, which is the configuration of the Phase 1 benchmark. The empirical identification proceeds as follows. For each document in the Phase 1 cor-pus, we measure ˆμ1, ˆμ2, and (where a third pass is triggered) ˆμ3, together with the per-pass token count and the estimated energy consumption. A pilot run of the calibration notebook on the 50-document corpus yields a sample mean of the ratio γc/ E[ˆ μ1] of approximately 0.05 ,consistent with the chosen threshold but identified on a single execution and therefore not yet stabilised against replay-level variance (prompt-cache state, temperature sampling on the LLM calls, dependency versions, document ordering). The scale-up phase will extend the calibration to replayed runs on the 200-document corpus and report a replay-averaged bootstrap interval; the pre-registered analysis plan specifies that if the replay-averaged 95% CI no longer covers 0.05 ,the quality floor and the elbow threshold will be re-identified separately, breaking the numerical equality. Two regimes follow from this choice. When ˆμk < ε floor , the extraction has failed to recover even the dominant representational direction (which, by Proposition 1, is the direction of highest utility) and an additional pass is warranted. When ˆμk > 1 − εelbow = 0 .95 , the analysis has covered more than 95% of the total representational capacity of the pipeline, and the marginal gain from an additional pass is smaller than the marginal energy cost. In the intermediate range, the pipeline stops by default: the first-pass output is deemed adequate and further passes are not cost-justified under uniform per-pass cost. Operators with asymmetric cost structures (for example, a nuclear-sector deployment where extraction failures carry higher downstream cost than redundant passes) should recalibrate εfloor and εelbow independently, and the numerical equality need not be preserved. 

## 9.3 The output schema 

A representative output from the pipeline, illustrating the structured schema, is shown in Fig-ure 1. The combination of high-precision bounding box coordinates, mineral resource lists, and structural geological data enables direct ingestion into GIS software (QGIS, ArcGIS) via GeoJ-SON export, and provides a traceable audit trail for the georeferencing decisions. 

## 9.4 Sequential stopping: formal statement 

The multi-pass pipeline can be cast as a finite-horizon optimal stopping problem. Let τ ∈{1, 2, . . . , K max } be the stopping time (number of passes performed). The expected payoff of stopping at time τ is 

V (τ ) = E[ˆ μτ ] − γ ·

> τ

X

> k=1

ck, (29) where ck is the cost of pass k in tokens or watt-hours. Under the assumption that the marginal contribution of pass k is proportional to the relative eigenvalue λk/λ 1 (established by Proposi-18 {"filename": "carte_geol_massif.png", "document_type": "carte_geologique", "geographic_zone": "Massif Armoricain, Bretagne, France", "bbox_detected": {"xmin": -3.52, "ymin": 47.21, "xmax": -2.81, "ymax": 47.89, "crs": "EPSG:4326"}, "scale_reference": "1:50000", "north_orientation": "geographique", "mineral_resources": ["aurifere", "arsenic", "antimoine"], "geological_formations": ["granodiorite", "micaschiste", "quartzite"], "structural_data": {"pendage": "45", "direction": "N120E", "type_structure": "faille normale"}, "radiometric_ages": ["320 Ma"], "legend_extensive": "[carte_geol_massif.png]. Carte geologique ...", "relocalization_confidence": "haute", "relocalization_notes": "Coordonnees lisibles. Precision +/-5-15 m.", "reconstruction_prompt": "Geological map of Massif Armoricain ...", "mu_score": 0.82, "passes_used": 2, "tokens_used": 1024, "latency_ms": 4200.5 }

Figure 1: Representative output schema from the multi-pass geo-mining inference pipeline. tion 1), and that costs are uniform across passes ( ck = c), the optimal stopping time is 

τ ∗ = max 



k : λk

λ1

≥ γ · c

E[ˆ μ1]



, (30) which coincides with k∗ 

> εelbow

in equation (9) when εelbow = γc/ E[ˆ μ1]. This establishes the cali-bration principle: the elbow threshold εelbow should be set equal to the ratio of the energy cost per pass to the expected quality of the first-pass output, normalized by the maximum eigenvalue of the projected attention operator. Under this calibration, the numerical equality εfloor = εelbow 

of Section 9.2 is recovered: the quality floor below which retry is warranted coincides with the variance-ratio tail below which additional dimensions cease to contribute meaningful information. 

# 10 TIES model merging as utility-maximizing weight-space inte-gration 

## 10.1 Motivation and framing 

The retained models in Table 4 have complementary capabilities. Idefics2-8B [Laurençon et al., 2024] has strong spatial and visual reasoning: it processes images, identifies geometric structures, and reads cartographic elements. Mistral-7B-Instruct [Jiang et al., 2023] has strong French technical text generation: it produces fluent, precise reports in the geological register. Neither model alone can perform the full pipeline task optimally. Training a new combined model from scratch would require on the order of 10 23 to 10 24 

floating-point operations for a 7-billion-parameter model from random initialization, plus a large domain-specific corpus that is not yet available. Fine-tuning both models separately and run-ning them in sequence doubles inference cost. TIES-merging [Yadav et al., 2023] offers a third path: combine the task vectors of both fine-tuned models in weight space, producing a sin-gle model that inherits the complementary capabilities of both without requiring additional 19 training. The marginal utility framework motivates the choice of TIES over simpler averaging schemes: by trimming low-magnitude task vectors (which correspond to low-eigenvalue represen-tational dimensions) and resolving sign conflicts by majority vote (which corresponds to selecting the dominant eigendirection when multiple models disagree), TIES implicitly implements the 

k∗ = max {k : λk ≥ γ} rule at the level of individual weight entries. 

## 10.2 The three-step procedure 

Given a base model with weights θbase and two fine-tuned models with weights θ1 and θ2, TIES constructs a merged model in three steps. The first step is trimming. For each parameter p, the task vector δpi = θpi − θp 

> base

represents the change induced by fine-tuning on model i. Parameters whose task vector magnitude falls below a density threshold ρi are set to zero: 

˜δpi = δpi · 1



|δpi | ≥ ρi · max  

> q

|δqi |



. (31) In equation (31), ρi plays the role of the threshold εelbow from equation (9): it removes the low-magnitude changes that correspond to the tail eigenvalues of the fine-tuning gradient operator. In the current configuration (cf. Table 5 below), the higher density bands applied to Mistral in the upper layers reflect its more specialized training on French geological text, where a larger fraction of the weight changes are genuine task-relevant adaptations rather than noise. The second step is sign election. For each parameter p, a majority vote determines the consensus sign of the task vectors: 

γp = sign X

> i

wi · ˜δpi

!

, (32) where w1 = 0 .45 (Mistral-7B weight) and w2 = 0 .55 (Idefics2-8B weight). Parameters whose task vector disagrees with the consensus sign are masked out: they correspond to directions where the two fine-tuning processes pulled the weights in opposite directions, indicating incompatible representations. Averaging such conflicting parameters would reduce the performance of both models, because it would move the merged model away from the local optima of each individual fine-tuning objective. The third step is merging. Only the parameters that survived the sign election are averaged with weights (w1, w 2):

θp 

> merged

= θp 

> base

+ X

> i

wi · ˜δpi · 1

h

sign( ˜δpi ) = γpi

. (33) The result of equation (33) is a model that inherits the spatial reasoning of Idefics2-8B in the early layers (where visual features are processed) and the French geological text generation of Mistral-7B in the later layers (where semantic composition occurs). 

## 10.3 Layer-wise calibration via Φl

The layer-wise utility function Φl (Definition 2) directly motivates the heterogeneous compression densities applied across layers. Table 5 summarizes the layer-wise configuration. The density values in Table 5 are derived from the empirical Φl profile of the merged model: middle layers (8–19) carry the highest information value for the geo-mining task and are therefore compressed least aggressively (density 0.68), while early layers (0–7) have low Φl values and can be compressed to half their task-vector budget (density 0.50) without significant quality loss. Late layers (20–31) have the highest density (0.78) not because they carry high Φl values in the abstract, but because the quality of French geological report generation depends sensitively on the precise vocabulary and syntactic patterns learned by Mistral-7B in fine-tuning, which are concentrated in the late-layer linguistic parameters. 20 Table 5: Layer-wise TIES configuration in the merged geo-mining model. Layers wIdefics wMistral Density Dominant capability 0–7 0.80 0.20 0.50 Low-level vision (shapes, colors, contours) 8–19 0.50 0.50 0.68 Geo-mining semantics (coordinates, formations) 20–31 0.30 0.70 0.78 French report generation 

# 11 Benchmark: sovereign merging versus state-of-the-art models 

## 11.1 Experimental design 

At the time of writing, the full GPU-based merging and LoRA fine-tuning described in Section 10 have not yet been executed (they are scheduled for months M4–M9 of the project roadmap). The benchmark presented here therefore has a dual character. Phase 1 results for the proprietary models (Gemini 3.5 Flash, GPT-4o, Gemini 2.5 Flash) and the individual sovereign base models (Idefics2-8B, Mistral-7B) come from an executed 50-document corpus drawn from the auriferous districts of the Armorican Massif (Brittany, France). For the merged sovereign architecture, the reported metrics are projections obtained by combining (i) the measured per-field extraction behavior of each component model on the Phase 1 corpus and (ii) the theoretical analysis of Sections 3–10 that predicts how TIES trimming and LoRA fine-tuning will redistribute quality across fields. The projections are therefore empirically grounded rather than purely theoretical, but remain projections until the scale-up phase executes the merge itself. The benchmark will be completed and updated upon scale-up deployment on the 200-document stratified corpus described in Section 11.2, and the projections presented here should be understood as calibrated estimates rather than final experimental results. The evaluation corpus consists of 50 geo-mining documents drawn from five auriferous dis-tricts of the Armorican Massif (Semnon, Kerjouanno, Huelgoat, Pontivy, Trieux), sampled as a 

2 × 5 sub-grid within each district bounding box and retrieved as BRGM geological map tiles at scale 1:50 000 through the WMS SCAN_H_GEOL50 (harmonised) layer. Reference bounding boxes are provided by construction by the WMS request centre itself; reference mineral resource lists were obtained from the BRGM InfoTerre WFS service (BD Charm-50 geodatabase, CRS EPSG:4326). A coordinate reference system (CRS) is a mathematical framework that specifies how a set of numerical coordinates maps to locations on the Earth’s surface. It combines a geodetic datum, which defines the shape and orientation of the Earth model, with a projection rule that converts three-dimensional positions on the datum to two-dimensional map coordinates. In this paper, coordinates are expressed in two systems. EPSG:4326 denotes the World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS84) geographic CRS, in which positions are given as decimal degrees of latitude and longitude; this is the system used by GPS and by GeoJSON exports. EPSG:2154 denotes the Lambert-93 projected CRS, the official reference system for French national cartography, in which positions are given in metres relative to a transverse Mercator projection centred on France; this is the system used on BRGM geological maps at scales 1:25 000 and 1:50 000. A key task of the multi-pass pipeline is to detect the CRS from visual cues in the document (coordinate grid labels, north arrow annotation, and sheet reference numbers) and encode it in the output schema (Figure 1); georeferencing precision is undefined if the CRS is misidentified, since the same numerical coordinates correspond to locations hundreds of kilometres apart under different projections. 

## 11.2 Validation infrastructure 

The infrastructure used to execute the merge procedure, the LoRA fine-tuning and the bench-mark described in this section has been designed to satisfy the same sovereignty and frugality 21 constraints that motivate the model architecture itself. Retaining a costly, opaque, or extra-European validation infrastructure would experimentally contradict the properties the model is supposed to embody, a contradiction whose only resolution would consist in reducing the frugality argument to a purely rhetorical claim. The validation chain rests on three components. First, the TIES merge procedure (Sec-tion 10.2) and the LoRA fine-tuning are executed on Google Colab Pro, with an A100-40 GB GPU session (or L4-24 GB for the inference phases), for a monthly subscription cost of EUR 11. Second, the weights of the merged model, the extended BRGM geo-mining corpus, and the struc-tured JSON outputs of each inference pass are stored on Google Drive (2 TB available) mounted directly in the execution environment, eliminating any network transfer between the merge step and the evaluation step. Third, the merged model is publicly versioned on HuggingFace Hub, which ensures both weight auditability by an independent third party and formal reproducibility of the evaluation, two properties that the proprietary models of Table 4 exclude by construction. The total marginal cost of validation, including merge, fine-tuning, and sovereign inference on the 200-document BRGM corpus, amounts to approximately EUR 15 for the full cycle, against an earlier estimate of EUR 80 to EUR 250 monthly for a Railway infrastructure of equivalent GPU capacity. This order-of-magnitude differential illustrates a non-trivial consequence of the frugality framework: the saving is not localised at the level of the final deployed model but propagates across the entire validation chain, from the merge procedure to the summary tables of Section 11.4. The proprietary APIs (Gemini 3.5 Flash, GPT-4o, Gemini 2.5 Flash) are called from this same environment to guarantee identity of test conditions (same corpus, same prompt schema, same post-processing), with a cumulative unit cost of a few euros for the complete pass over the extended corpus. This point matters: the sovereign-versus-proprietary comparison of Tables 6 and 7 is not a contrast between two heterogeneous infrastructures but between two inference choices evaluated on a shared validation substrate. The sovereign benchmark of Section 11 evaluates the TIES-merged model with LoRA adapter as a single-model configuration, not the three-stage cascade of Section 9 (SmolVLM-500M pre-screen, Idefics2-based merged model, expert maximum-effort pass). This design isolates the contribution of weight-space merging and parameter-efficient fine-tuning from that of the multi-pass stopping rule, and aligns with the single-row reporting of Table 7. The full cascade is evaluated separately in the Multi-pass, 2–3 passes (API) row of Table 7, and the interaction between merging and multi-pass inference is deferred to the scale-up phase. The choice of a 200-document corpus rather than the 50 initially reported in the Phase 1 benchmark responds to a statistical requirement. Under the Wilcoxon signed-rank methodology adopted in Section 11.4, detecting a MU score gap of 0.02 between two models at the standard power ( α = 0 .05 , β = 0 .80 ) requires on the order of 150 paired samples; 200 provides a safety margin for cases of failed JSON parsing. The extended corpus is constructed by stratified sam-pling on the ODMGM database (Au, Ag, Cu, Pb, Zn, U, Sn, W, Sb, As), one representative per 50km × 50km Lambert-93 grid cell, complemented by 40 non-metallogenic contexts to en-sure lithological diversity (sedimentary basins, alpine and pyrenean orogens, hercynian massifs). The maps are extracted via the BRGM WMS service (layer SCAN_H_GEOL50 , 1:50 000) centred on each sample point, with a 5km × 5km extent and 1024 × 1024 -pixel resolution. Reference bounding boxes are provided by construction by the WMS request itself, removing any human annotation from the protocol and guaranteeing a deterministic ground truth for the Haversine drift metric. The corpus extension to 200 documents is scheduled for the scale-up phase of the project; the benchmark presented in Section 11.4 is the Phase 1 result on 50 documents, with the full 200-document evaluation reported in a subsequent revision. 

## 11.3 Metrics 

Four groups of metrics are reported. Quality is measured by the empirical MU score ˆμ and by the Haversine drift d in meters between detected and reference bounding box centers. Efficiency 22 is measured by total tokens consumed per analysis and by estimated GPU energy in watt-hours. Token accounting follows the provider’s own usage field for API models: the reported figure is the sum of prompt and completion tokens, the prompt term including the image tokenisation, and the two terms are kept separate for costing since input and output are priced differently. Locally deployed models report the same two counts through the sovereign gateway. Generation is capped at 2 048 output tokens for the API models and at 400 new tokens for the local sovereign candidates, with greedy decoding and temperature zero throughout; no minimum length is im-posed, so a truncated or empty generation is possible and is handled by the output parser rather than by a generation floor. Energy is estimated as E ≈ PGPU ×Tinference , a wall-clock power-time product in which the token count enters only indirectly through its effect on inference time, and not as a third multiplicative factor, where PGPU is the peak GPU power draw of the locally controlled hardware (72 W for the L4 used in local sovereign inference; a declared fallback value of 350 W is used for A100-class local runs when no on-device telemetry is available, the measured NVML draw taking precedence whenever the run is instrumented). Because PGPU enters both sovereign arms as a common multiplicative factor, and because the sobriety axis is min–max normalised across the compared candidates in the verdict harness, the value chosen for PGPU 

cancels in the switch point w∗ of Section 11.5: it affects the absolute footprint reported against the proprietary services, not the ranking of the two sovereign arms. No power figure is imputed to the proprietary API calls, whose infrastructure draw is not observable to the operator, which is precisely the auditability asymmetry developed in Section 11.6. The benchmark pipeline does record, for those calls, a local-equivalent counterfactual obtained by applying the local reference power to the observed wall-clock latency; that quantity is a comparison aid retained in the raw artefacts and is never reported as the provider’s consumption, which is why no energy column appears for API models in Table 6. Sovereignty is measured as a binary indicator (local deploy-ment possible without cloud API dependency) and as a license compliance indicator. Cost is measured in euros per 1 000 analyses, using public pricing for API-based models and hardware amortization for locally deployed models. 

## 11.4 Results 

Tables 6 and 7 present the comparative results. Table 6 reports the measured Phase 1 bench-mark for the proprietary API reference models on the executed 50-document corpus; all figures are measured. Table 7 reports the scale-up projected targets for the sovereign architectures that are the actual deployment candidates; all figures are calibrated projections derived from the theoretical analysis of Sections 3–10 combined with the Phase 1 per-field behavior of the component models. The two tables should not be read as directly comparable on the cost and energy columns without that projection–measurement caveat. 23 Table 6: Phase 1 measured benchmark on the 50-document Armorican Massif corpus (BRGM SCAN_H_GEOL50 harmonised geological maps, 1:50 000). Drift is the median Haversine dis-tance between the model’s detected bbox centre and the true WMS request centre, computed only over predictions yielding plausible coordinates (i.e. excluding sentinel values such as (0 , 0) 

that two of the three models returned for the majority of cards). The Geoloc. column reports the number of cards for which the model returned a plausible bbox out of the 50 tested. The Tokens column is the per-card mean of prompt plus completion tokens as reported by the provider’s us-age field, the prompt term including image tokenisation; generation was capped at 2 048 output tokens with greedy decoding. Costs are computed at public API pricing prevailing at execution time. The three proprietary systems are those available at the date of execution, in spring 2026; four further Flash-tier releases have followed on the Google side since that date, so this table is to be read as the proprietary state of the art at execution time rather than at the date of pub-lication. All models in this table are ineligible for deployment under the sovereignty constraints of Section 8 and appear here as reference ceilings only. Model MU Drift (km) Geoloc. Tokens Cost (EUR/k) Sovereign Gemini 3.5 Flash (API) 0.70 21.8 43/50 1971 1.57 No GPT-4o (API) 0.67 n/a 0/50 1336 4.58 No Gemini 2.5 Flash (API) 0.19 n/a 0/50 824 0.10 No Table 7: Scale-up projected targets on the 200-document stratified BRGM corpus: sovereign open-weight architectures and projected multi-pass API baseline. Drift is reported as the median, on the same convention as Table 6, so that the two tables are directly comparable on that axis once the unit scales are reconciled at scale-up. All rows are projections obtained by combining the Phase 1 per-field extraction behavior of each component model with the theoretical analysis of Sections 3–10 that predicts how TIES trimming and LoRA fine-tuning redistribute quality across fields. These projections will be confirmed or revised in scale-up deployment. Costs are hardware-amortised for locally deployed models. Section mark (§) denotes models added at revision; dagger ( †) denotes the multi-pass API baseline moved from Table 6 as a projection rather than a measurement. The Tokens column is the projected per-card total of prompt plus completion tokens, the prompt term including image tokenisation; it is not a count of generated tokens, which the 400-token generation cap of the local protocol bounds well below these values.                                           

> Model MU Drift (m) Tokens Energy (Wh) Cost (EUR/k) Sovereign TIES-merged + LoRA 0.90 68 1 200 0.036 0.25 Yes Gemma 4 26B-A4B (local)§ 0.88 78 1 290 0.038 0.26 Yes TIES-merged (no LoRA) 0.86 95 1 380 0.041 0.28 Yes Single-pass Idefics2-8B 0.74 210 1 050 0.051 0.21 Yes Single-pass Mistral-7B 0.68 380 980 0.048 0.19 Yes Multi-pass, 2–3 passes (API) †0.88 85 1 720 0.067 3.80 No

11.4.1 Construction of the scale-up projections: methodology and uncertainty 

The entries of Table 7 are projections, not measurements, and should be read as calibrated estimates with quantified uncertainty rather than as benchmark results. This subsection specifies the construction. For each architecture a and each extraction field f (ten fields, with weights wf as defined in Section 9.2), let q(1)  

> a,f

denote the per-field extraction success rate measured on the Phase 1 corpus under the single-component baseline: Idefics2-8B alone for visual fields (mineral resources, geological formations, structural data), Mistral-7B alone for text-generation fields (reconstruction 24 prompt, legend extensive), and the better of the two for shared fields (bounding box, coordinate reference system, scale reference, geographic zone, radiometric ages). The projected per-field success rate ˜qa,f of the merged architecture is modelled as a linear combination 

˜qa,f = αf · q(1)  

> Idefics ,f

+ (1 − αf ) · q(1)  

> Mistral ,f

+ βa · ∆f , (34) where αf is the layer-weighted combination coefficient derived from Table 5 (the Idefics2 weight 

wIdefics of the dominant layer band for field f : early layers for visual fields, late layers for text-generation fields, middle layers for shared semantic fields), ∆f is the expected field-level uplift from LoRA fine-tuning, taken to be zero for the no-LoRA row and estimated from published fine-tuning gains on comparable tasks [Laurençon et al., 2024, Jiang et al., 2023] for the LoRA rows, and βa is an architecture-specific scaling factor set to 1 for the TIES-merged architecture, 0.7 for Gemma 4 26B-A4B (reflecting the expectation that a larger general-purpose model benefits less from task-specific LoRA than a merged task-specific base), and 0 for the no-LoRA row. The projected MU score of architecture a is then ˜μa = P 

> f

wf ˜qa,f . Uncertainty is propagated by parametric bootstrap: each q(1)  

> a,f

is sampled from a Beta (na,f q(1)  

> a,f

, n a,f (1 − q(1)  

> a,f

)) distribution with na,f the Phase 1 sample size for that field, each ∆f is sampled from a Normal distribution centred on the published estimate with standard deviation 25% of the point estimate, and the resulting ˜μa distribution is summarised by its mean and 95% interval. A pilot run of the projec-tion notebook produces point estimates in the neighbourhood of the values reported in Table 7, with indicative 95% intervals of width approximately ±0.04 around each point estimate. These intervals reflect bootstrap resampling from a single execution of the notebook and do not cap-ture replay-level variance across independent runs of the merge and evaluation pipeline. The scale-up phase will execute the notebook across multiple replay seeds and report replay-averaged intervals. The projection model (34) has three known limitations. First, the linear combination as-sumption treats per-field extraction successes as additively separable, which ignores compen-satory effects where a failure on one field (for example, coordinate reference system) propagates to dependent fields (bounding box precision). The effect of this ignored correlation is to over-estimate the MU score of architectures that are weak on upstream fields, and to underestimate the conditional benefit of LoRA fine-tuning on downstream fields. Second, the LoRA uplift 

∆f is borrowed from comparable tasks rather than measured on the geo-mining corpus, which introduces transfer uncertainty not captured by the 25% standard deviation. Third, the βa val-ues are operator-specified rather than estimated; sensitivity analyses with βa ∈ [0 .5, 1.2] shift the TIES-merged MU projection by at most ±0.03 and preserve the Pareto ranking against Gemma 4 26B-A4B. The scale-up phase will execute the merge and report measured per-field rates, which will either confirm or revise the projection and close the transfer-uncertainty gap. The drift, energy, cost, and token projections of Table 7 are constructed analogously: the drift projection uses the measured drift of the dominant visual component weighted by the layer-band composition; the energy projection uses the measured per-token energy of each component scaled by the projected token budget; the cost projection amortises the hardware over the projected throughput at the Phase 1-measured latency. The complete projection notebook and bootstrap routines are deposited on the project HuggingFace repository alongside the Phase 1 measurement logs, for auditability. 

11.4.2 Comparative analysis across benchmarks 

The following paragraphs compare the measured proprietary baselines of Table 6 with the pro-jected sovereign architectures of Table 7. Readers are reminded that the proprietary rows are Phase 1 measurements on the executed 50-document corpus, whereas the sovereign rows are scale-up projections constructed as specified in Section 11.4.1; the comparison should therefore be read as a calibrated forecast rather than as a head-to-head benchmark, and the final ranking will be confirmed or revised in the scale-up phase. 25 Three observations follow from the measured benchmark of Table 6. First, only one of the three proprietary models, Gemini 3.5 Flash, performs geographic extraction at all: it returns plausible bounding boxes on 43 of the 50 tiles, with a median Haversine drift of 21.8 km, of the same order of magnitude as the side of a 1:50 000 BRGM sheet. The two other models return sentinel coordinates (typically (0 , 0) ) on every tile, indicating that they fill the JSON schema slot without attempting actual extraction. Second, even on the model that does geolocate, the residual drift of 21.8 km is too coarse to be operationally useful for mining-exploration cartog-raphy, where district-scale localisation requires sub-kilometre precision. Third, the MU score of the worst-performing model (Gemini 2.5 Flash, MU = 0 .19 ) reflects descriptive output devoid of named geological formations (for example “unidentified yellow unit”), which combined with its near-zero cost indicates that pure cost minimisation among proprietary options is not a viable axis of selection. These figures establish the current measured proprietary ceiling for the task. All three models share, in addition, the fundamental disqualification identified in Section 8: no access to weights, no local deployment, and mandatory transmission of geo-mining documents to non-European servers. On the measured cost axis, the only proprietary model that performs the task, Gem-ini 3.5 Flash, costs EUR 1.57 per thousand analyses against a projected EUR 0.25 for the TIES-merged sovereign architecture, a factor of approximately 6.3; GPT-4o, which does not geolocate, is costlier still at EUR 4.58 per thousand, while the cheapest proprietary option (Gemini 2.5 Flash at EUR 0.10) returns no usable coordinates and is therefore not a viable comparator at any price. The measured benchmark deliberately reports tokens but not an energy figure for the proprietary calls, because their inference runs on infrastructure whose power draw is not observable to the operator; that opacity is itself the auditability point developed in Section 14, and contrasts with the fully observable 0.036 Wh per analysis projected for the local sovereign architecture in Table 7. Among the sovereign open-weight candidates of Table 7, Gemma 4 26B-A4B (Apache 2.0, April 2026) achieves a projected MU score of 0.88 and drift of 78 m, slightly below the TIES-merged architecture with LoRA fine-tuning on the projected quality axis, while operating at a fraction of the cost and entirely within a sovereign infrastructure. Its 256K-token context window, the largest among the open-weight models in the retained set, is particularly valuable for multi-page geological reports, and its native multimodality (text, image, and audio) makes it a strong candidate for the re-legendage module described in Section 9.1. The projected results for Gemma 4 26B-A4B do not include LoRA fine-tuning on the geo-mining corpus, which is expected to close the remaining quality gap with the TIES-merged architecture; this fine-tuning is scheduled for the scale-up phase. The TIES-merged architecture with LoRA fine-tuning remains, on projection, the top-performing sovereign option, with a projected MU score of 0.90 and a projected drift of 68 m. A direct quality–drift comparison against the proprietary baselines is deferred rather than asserted here, because the two figures are not yet on a common scale: the projected sovereign drift is reported in metres, whereas the only proprietary model that geolocates at all (Gemini 3.5 Flash) was measured at a kilometre-scale drift of 21.8 km. Reconciling this scale gap by re-measuring the merged model’s drift against the same WMS ground truth used for Table 6 is accordingly a primary objective of the scale-up phase, and the projected metre-scale figures of Table 7 should be read as calibrated targets to be validated rather than as a demonstrated advantage over the measured proprietary ceiling. The energy advantage is consistent with the theoretical prediction: the TIES trimming step concentrates the eigenspectrum of the merged model, reducing the effective rank of the attention computations and therefore the memory bandwidth per inference token (Sections 10–10.2). 26 11.5 Multi-objective frugality: the quality–energy–drift frontier 

The benchmark of Section 11.4 reports four metrics that an operator must ultimately combine into a single deployment decision: extraction quality ˆμ, localization drift d, energy consumption 

E, and monetary cost. Best-in-class comparison on any single metric is silent on the tradeoffs that matter in practice, where a model that is slightly worse on quality but substantially better on energy or tail drift may be preferable under CSRD-compliant sustainability reporting or nuclear-sector precision requirements. The unified allocation rule of Proposition 2 extends to this multi-objective setting through a Markowitz-style mean–variance scalarization. Let yi = (ˆ μi, −di, −Ei)⊤ ∈ R3 be the (quality, negative drift, negative energy) vector for model i, components signed so that each increases with deployment utility. For a weight vector w ∈ ∆3 on the three-dimensional simplex, the scalar operator objective is 

F (w) = w⊤ ¯y − λM

2 w⊤Σw, (35) where ¯y is the corpus-mean objective vector, Σ is the across-corpus covariance of objectives es-timated from the Phase 1 validation set, and λM > 0 is the operator risk-aversion coefficient. Equation (35) is the direct analog of equation (3): λM plays here the role that the regularization coefficient λ plays in the matrix-factorization objective, equating the marginal gain of mean per-formance with the marginal cost of cross-objective variance. The shadow price γ of Proposition 2 reappears as the Lagrange multiplier of the simplex constraint on w.Drift, unlike quality and energy, is a tail-sensitive metric. A median drift of 68 m is ac-ceptable for exploration targeting; a 95th-percentile drift of 500 m is not, because the worst cases correspond to coordinate-reference-system misidentifications that compromise the entire georeferencing chain. This motivates replacing the central-tendency drift component of ¯y with the Conditional Value-at-Risk at confidence level α:

CVaR α(d) = E[d | d ≥ VaR α(d)] . (36) Under the coherent-risk-measure axioms of Rockafellar and Uryasev [2000], CVaR α is convex in the underlying distribution, preserving the concavity of (35) and therefore the existence of a unique interior maximum whenever Σ is positive definite. On the Phase 1 corpus, CVaR 0.10 (d)

for the TIES-merged projection is approximately 145 m, against a median drift of 68 m; the gap between central and tail drift is itself a diagnostic for the stability of the compression procedure, and reducing it is a scale-up objective. The solution w∗ of the scalarization (35) traces the operator frugality frontier: the set of preference weights under which each architecture is Pareto-efficient. Two regions are worth naming. For operators weighting energy at wE ≥ 0.35 (a plausible lower bound for organisa-tions reporting under the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive), the TIES-merged sovereign architecture dominates all proprietary alternatives on the frontier. For operators requir-ing CVaR 0.10 (d) ≤ 60 m (a stylised nuclear-sector precision requirement), none of the measured proprietary models qualifies: the only one that geolocates, Gemini 3.5 Flash, was measured at a 21.8 km drift, three orders of magnitude above this floor, and all of them fail the feasibility con-straints of Section 8 regardless. The metre-scale precision required by this regime is, on present evidence, a target for the projected sovereign architecture to be validated at scale-up rather than a property demonstrated by any model in either table. Within that subset, the merged architecture is Pareto-optimal under all plausible operator weightings tested so far. Estimation of Σ from the 50-document Phase 1 corpus introduces finite-sample uncertainty. A bootstrap analysis with 1 000 resamples indicates that the Pareto ranking of the three retained sovereign architectures (TIES-merged with LoRA, Gemma 4 26B-A4B local, TIES-merged with-out LoRA) is stable in 94% of resamples; the 6% of unstable resamples are concentrated on documents with particularly challenging vision–text alignment, which are exactly the cases tar-geted by the scale-up re-legendage module. 27 Sensitivity of the frugality frontier to perturbations of Σ. The stability of the Pareto ranking established by the bootstrap analysis depends on the structural assumption that the covariance matrix Σ estimated from the Phase 1 corpus remains a reasonable proxy for the covariance on the full scale-up population. Three classes of departure from this assumption warrant explicit sensitivity analysis. The first is distributional shift: the Phase 1 corpus is restricted to the Armorican Massif, whereas the scale-up 200-document corpus stratifies across the ten metallogenic provinces of the ODMGM database. Under the plausible hypothesis that inter-provincial heterogeneity is concentrated on the drift axis (via variation in cartographic conventions across regional BRGM offices), a conservative sensitivity analysis inflates the drift variance by a factor of 1.5 and recomputes w∗: under this stress test, the Pareto ranking of the three retained sovereign architectures is preserved in 87% of bootstrap resamples, against 94% under the baseline Σ. The second is estimation uncertainty: a shrinkage estimator ˆΣλS =(1 −λS ) ˆΣemp +λS ˆΣdiag [Ledoit and Wolf, 2004] with λS = 0 .25 produces a Pareto ranking identical to the empirical estimator in 96% of resamples, confirming that off-diagonal estimation noise is not the binding constraint at the current sample size. The third is adversarial perturbation: for operators concerned with worst-case deployment performance, the relevant question is whether a small ( ∥∆Σ ∥F ≤ 0.10 ) adversarial perturbation can flip the Pareto ranking. A gradient-based attack on the objective (35) finds no such perturbation for the TIES-merged architecture against Gemma 4 26B-A4B, indicating that the Pareto dominance of the former is robust within the neighborhood; a perturbation of norm 0.14 suffices to flip the ranking against the TIES-merged architecture without LoRA, indicating that the LoRA fine-tuning contributes materially to the robustness of the sovereign deployment choice; both configurations being projections rather than measurements, this statement characterises the stability of the projection model under resampling and not an executed with-versus-without ablation, which the scale-up phase will perform. A full posterior characterisation of w∗ under hierarchical Bayesian estimation of Σ is left to future work and motivates Problem 5 of Section 16. 

## 11.6 The economic and sovereign case for model merging 

The benchmark results support a stronger claim than mere cost parity. The relevant proprietary comparator for a production deployment is the only proprietary model that performs the task at all, Gemini 3.5 Flash, measured at EUR 1.57 per thousand analyses. For an industrial operator processing 100 million geo-mining documents per year, this amounts to EUR 157 000 in API costs, against a projected EUR 25 000 for local sovereign deployment: an annual saving of ap-proximately EUR 132 000, a factor of roughly 6.3. Benchmarking instead against GPT-4o (EUR 4.58 per thousand, but with no usable geolocation) widens the gap to a factor above eighteen. Either way the saving covers the amortised cost of a commodity GPU server within the first months of operation, and the differential grows with deployment volume. The energy comparison favours sovereign deployment in a more fundamental way than a single ratio would capture. The measured Phase 1 benchmark reports no energy figure for the propri-etary calls because their inference runs on infrastructure whose power draw is not observable to the operator. The projected TIES-merged local architecture, by contrast, consumes 0.036 Wh per analysis on the L4 used throughout, a figure that is directly measurable and reproducible. The decisive contrast is therefore not a measured watt-hour differential but the observability gap itself: a locally deployed model exposes an auditable energy footprint, whereas the energy cost of API-based inference is opaque by construction, and this opacity is incompatible with the lifecycle carbon accounting now required under the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. The case for Gemma 4 26B-A4B as a near-term alternative or complement to the TIES-merged architecture is also economically clear. It requires no merging infrastructure, no GPU for training (inference only), and is available immediately on Apache 2.0 terms. At a projected cost of EUR 0.26 per thousand analyses and 0.038 Wh per analysis, it matches the TIES-merged architecture within 2% on both dimensions while offering a 256K-token context window unavail-28 able in the current Idefics2-8B + Mistral-7B base models. The scale-up roadmap accordingly prioritizes fine-tuning both architectures on the geo-mining corpus and comparing them on the full 200-document validation set described in Section 11.2. The sovereignty argument is distinct from and complementary to the cost argument. The nuclear sector is subject to strict export control regulations (Règlement CE 428/2009, US Export Administration Regulations) that may be triggered by transmitting geological survey data to non-European servers. The proprietary API models of Table 6, however capable, cannot be used in this sector without a legal review that would itself consume resources comparable to the API cost differential. Sovereign local deployment eliminates this legal surface entirely. 

# 12 Measured frugality validation: a hierarchical classifier on the Orano uranium-exploration corpus 

## 12.1 Motivation and scope of the measurement 

The benchmark of Section 11 reports measurements for the proprietary API reference models on the 50-document Phase 1 corpus and projections for the sovereign TIES-merged extraction architecture on the 200-document scale-up corpus. The merge step itself, the LoRA fine-tuning, and the per-field extraction evaluation are scheduled for the scale-up phase of the project (months M4–M9 of the roadmap) and are not executed in this article. This section reports the empirical phase that the working paper v8.2 designated as Phase 2. The scope of Phase 2 was refined, after v8.2 was finalised, by the partner release of a 973-document uranium-exploration corpus with an associated human-audit baseline, around three concrete research questions: (Q1) whether a frugal classifier can substitute for a proprietary classification call without quality loss; (Q2) whether a multimodal text-plus-image approach can recover the coordinate reference system from cartographic and contextual cues; and (Q3) whether uniform-density TIES merging preserves image-conditional discrimination after weight-space integration. The present section reports the executed work on each of the three questions. This section closes a portion of that gap. We report a measured frugality validation on a complementary sub-task of the same pipeline: the document-type classification function of Pass 1 (Section 9.1), and the document-type-classification channel of the Lot 2 / Lot 3 interface (Sec-tion 13.3). The sub-task is narrower than the full extraction problem, but it is a load-bearing component of the pipeline: each Pass-1 classification at level 1 conditions the downstream extrac-tion strategy and, when correct, eliminates the energy of escalation to Pass 2 or Pass 3. Measured frugality on Pass 1 therefore translates into measured energy savings on the full pipeline, condi-tional on the Pass-1 classifier matching the accuracy of its proprietary alternative. The experimental opportunity arose from a parallel data release by the project partner Orano, who provided a corpus of uranium-exploration filings and government surveys originating pri-marily in the Athabasca Basin (Saskatchewan, Canada – Rook, Maybelle-Gartner, Dejour, and adjacent claim blocks documented in VTEM and Condor airborne survey reports) and in the Namibia uranium belt: 975 raw document images, of which 973 are usable after the join with the label table (two records had no matching image), accompanied by Gemini 2.5 Pro-generated classification labels at two granularities: six level-1 classes (geological map, geophysical survey, geochemical map, administrative document, basemap, unknown), and a level-2 taxonomy whose raw label set exhibits a long tail of singleton subclasses. The raw level-2 labels are therefore con-solidated before training: subclasses with fewer than ten instances are absorbed into an _other_ 

bucket attached to their level-1 parent, which yields the 22 consolidated level-2 classes used throughout this section. All level-2 figures reported below refer to this consolidated taxonomy. The corpus is therefore not co-located with the BRGM Phase 1 corpus of Section 11, which is restricted to the Armorican Massif: the classifier is trained and evaluated on the Athabasca– Namibia uranium-exploration documents, while the BRGM Armorican corpus continues to host 29 the extraction-stage benchmark and the TIES degenerate-mode diagnostic of Section 12.6. A hu-man audit of fifty cards drawn from the 973-card Orano uranium-exploration corpus, performed by the partner team, established a 92.0% agreement between the Gemini labels and the human ground truth at level 1, and 60.0% at level 2. The audit defines the proprietary baseline against which the sovereign classifier is measured below. The sub-task corresponds to an isolated coordinate of the empirical MU score ˆμk of equa-tion (28): the document_type field, which carries weight wdoctype in the aggregate score and acts as a routing variable for the downstream fields. A high-accuracy frugal classifier on this single field therefore tightens the frugality bound on the entire pipeline without prejudging the projections for the extraction-stage fields, which remain scale-up work. 

## 12.2 Architecture: hierarchical ResNet18 as an instance of Proposition 2 

The classifier is a ResNet18 [He et al., 2016] backbone pre-trained on ImageNet, with the final fully-connected layer replaced by two parallel classification heads: a level-1 head outputting six logits and a level-2 head outputting twenty-two logits, one per consolidated level-2 class. The combined head adds approximately 5 × 10 4 parameters to the 11.18 million of the ResNet18 trunk, for a total of 11.23 million trainable parameters in float32 ( ≈ 45 MB on disk). The hierarchical structure is a direct architectural instantiation of the unified allocation rule of Proposition 2. Under the rule, the optimal rank of a classifier is k∗ = max {k : λk ≥ γ}, where 

λk is the k-th eigenvalue of the projected covariance operator W V W ⊤ in the feature space, and 

γ is the shadow price of an additional class. The two heads define two distinct shadow-price regimes on the same feature space: the level-1 head retains the dominant six representational directions, corresponding to the six high-eigenvalue clusters that separate geological maps from geophysical surveys, geochemical maps, and the residual classes; the level-2 head retains a larger set of twenty-two directions, one per consolidated class, including the finer-grained sub-clusters that distinguish (for instance) borehole logs from cross-sections within the geological-map class. The shared backbone economises representational effort: the early layers, whose Φl values are highest for low-level visual features (Section 4.2), are estimated once on the joint task and amortised across both heads. This is the same structural argument that motivates the layer-wise calibration of TIES merg-ing in Section 10.2: heterogeneous shadow prices across coordinates of the representation produce heterogeneous retention thresholds, and the optimal allocation is recovered by applying the uni-fied rule coordinate by coordinate rather than uniformly. 

## 12.3 Training and inference protocol 

The Orano-released corpus of 973 cards is partitioned into 669 training, 134 validation, and 170 test images by stratified random split on the level-1 class. The 50-card audit set is held out separately and never enters training; it serves only as the reference for the comparison reported in Section 12.4. Training is performed for 10 epochs with AdamW at a learning rate of 1 × 10 −4 under a cosine-annealing schedule, weight decay 10 −4, batch size 32, on a single NVIDIA T4 GPU within the Colab Pro execution environment used throughout the project (Section 11.2). The loss is the unweighted sum of the level-1 and level-2 cross-entropy losses. Early stopping monitors the validation loss; the best checkpoint is selected on minimum validation loss and used for all downstream measurements. Total training wall-clock time on the T4 is approximately five minutes; total monetary cost is bounded by the Colab Pro subscription already accounted for in the validation infrastructure of Section 11.2 and is below ten euro-cents per training run when amortised over the monthly compute budget. Inference is performed on the same T4 GPU at batch size 1 to obtain a deployment-realistic latency. Per-card inference time is measured by averaging over the full 170-card test set after 30 a 10-card warm-up to amortise CUDA kernel compilation; the reported figure of 2.62 ms per card is the median over five independent runs of the evaluation script. The same script also evaluates the proprietary Gemini 2.5 Pro baseline via the API, with a measured per-card latency of approximately 2,000 ms inclusive of network round-trip from the Colab environment to the proprietary endpoint; this latency is dominated by the network and by the proprietary stack and is therefore an irreducible deployment cost rather than an artifact of the Colab environment. 

## 12.4 Results 

Table 8 reports the measured comparison. All figures are measurements; no projections are involved in this section. Table 8: Measured frugality comparison on the Orano uranium-exploration corpus (Athabasca Basin and Namibia uranium belt): Gemini 2.5 Pro versus a hierarchical ResNet18 classifier. Accuracy is measured against the human-audit ground truth (Gemini, 50 cards) and against the held-out test set (classifier, 170 cards). The two figures of merit are not directly comparable on identical samples, but both are measured against the same human-audit protocol applied by the partner team to its own data. Latency is the median end-to-end inference time per card on the same Colab Pro T4 GPU.                      

> Metric Gemini 2.5 Pro (API) ResNet18 hier. (sovereign) Accuracy, level 1 (%) 92.0 90.0
> Accuracy, level 2 (%) 60.0 55.9 Latency / card (ms) ≈2,000 2.62
> Cost / 1,000 cards (EUR) 12.0 ≈0.00
> Trainable parameters undisclosed ( ≥10 11 )1.12 ×10 7
> Reproducibility non-deterministic deterministic Sovereign deployment No Yes

The headline numbers are: a 2-point gap on level 1 accuracy in favour of Gemini, a residual 4.1-point gap on level 2 also in favour of Gemini (60.0% against 55.9%), an inference speedup of approximately ×765 (2,000 /2.62 ), and a per-card cost reduction from EUR 0.012 to a figure effectively indistinguishable from zero. The parameter ratio is at least four orders of magnitude, taking 10 11 as a conservative lower bound on the size of the proprietary model. The level-2 gap deserves comment. The level-2 problem is genuinely harder than the level-1 problem at the granularity considered, and the agreement between the Gemini labels and the human ground truth is itself low at level 2 (60.0%, against 92.0% at level 1). That figure measures label-versus-audit agreement, not agreement between two human annotators: a genuine inter-annotator statistic is reported in Section 12.7. The level-2 boundaries (lithological vs. structural vs. stratigraphic) are objectively blurred, which bounds the accuracy attainable by any classifier trained on these labels. The sovereign classifier reaches 55.9% at level 2 against 60.0% for Gemini on the human audit, a residual gap of 4.1 points. This gap is consistent with the marginal-utility reading of the rest of the paper rather than in tension with it: an 11.2-million-parameter model recovering most of the level-2 discrimination of a model three to four orders of magnitude larger, on a task whose own oracle plateaus at 60%, is precisely the diminishing-returns regime that Proposition 2 predicts. The residual 4.1 points are the portion of level-2 utility whose recovery would require disproportionate additional capacity. The comparison is moreover asymmetric in the same way as at level 1: the classifier is scored against Gemini-as-oracle on the 170-card test set, whereas Gemini is scored against the human audit on 50 cards; the two figures are therefore not measured against a common reference, and a human audit extended to the full test set would be required for a strict comparison. The gap nonetheless defines the priority axis for refinement, discussed in Section 12.7: a re-designed level-2 taxonomy, expert-annotated rather than Gemini-derived labels, or a multimodal classifier that integrates the page_text OCR field (95% coverage 31 in the enrichment pipeline) to disambiguate visually similar subclasses. The level-1 result is the load-bearing claim. The 2-point gap between 92.0% and 90.0% is within the inter-rater variability of the underlying classification task and does not depend on the labelling-protocol caveat that affects level 2: a 50-card audit at 92% accuracy has a ±7.5-point binomial 95% confidence interval, and a 170-card test at 90% accuracy has a ±4.5-point interval; the two intervals overlap from 85.5% to 94.5%, so the difference is not statistically significant at any conventional level. The conclusion is that the sovereign classifier matches proprietary level-1 accuracy at 10 −4 of the parameter budget and 10 −3 of the latency, with bounded confidence. 

## 12.5 Interpretation under the unified allocation rule 

The measurement of Table 8 instantiates the unified allocation rule of Proposition 2 in a setting where the projections of Section 11 are not yet available. The classifier’s parameter budget is set by the operator at k = 11 .2 × 10 6, which is the cardinality of the ResNet18 backbone plus heads; the shadow price γ implied by this budget choice is the marginal accuracy contributed by the 

(k + 1) -th parameter, which the measurement bounds below by the gap to Gemini divided by the parameter ratio. With a level-1 accuracy gap of 2 points and a parameter ratio of 10 4, the implied marginal accuracy per parameter is at most 2 × 10 −4 points per additional ImageNet-scale parameter – which is precisely the diminishing-marginal-utility regime that motivates the rule. The same calculation, run in reverse, sets an upper bound on the parameter budget at which a proprietary model could plausibly justify its scale on the geo-mining classification task. At a marginal accuracy of 2 × 10 −4 points per parameter, recovering the missing 2 points to reach 92.0% would require an additional 10 4 parameters above the ResNet18 baseline – leaving the total essentially unchanged at approximately 1.12 × 10 7 parameters, not 10 11 . The reasoning is deliberately circular, since the marginal rate is itself obtained by dividing the observed gap by the parameter ratio; it is offered as an order-of-magnitude statement rather than as an independent derivation. Read that way, the proprietary model is operating some four orders of magnitude above the marginal-utility-justified scale for this task. Most of its parameters are encoding capabilities unrelated to geo-mining classification; the cost of those capabilities is borne by the geo-mining operator under the API pricing model, and is the empirical content of the cost differential reported in the last row of Table 8. A second consequence concerns the multi-pass pipeline of Section 9. The Pass-1 stopping rule of equation (30) is sensitive to the per-pass cost c; replacing a 2,000-ms proprietary classification call by a 2.62-ms sovereign one reduces c by three orders of magnitude. Under the rule, this reduction does not move the optimal stopping point τ ∗ to a larger number of passes (the marginal cost of an extra pass is too low to bind the threshold), but it does eliminate the latency floor that previously forced operators to skip Pass 1 entirely under tight inference deadlines. The measured speedup therefore widens the regime in which the multi-pass architecture is feasible, in addition to lowering its cost. 

## 12.6 Empirical motivation for adaptive-density TIES: a degenerate-mode di-agnostic 

In a separate experiment, the uniform-density TIES-merged Idefics2-8B + Mistral-7B model of Section 10.2 was applied without further fine-tuning to a five-card sample of the BRGM Brittany corpus, with a prompt asking for the mineral resources, the geographic zone, and a relocalization-confidence score. The merged model produced essentially identical outputs across the five geographically distinct cards: the same dominant mineral list, the same geographic zone, and an indistinguishable confidence score. A geographically-enriched prompt eliminated the gross out-of-zone hallucination observed before prompt correction (the model no longer places the cards in an Appalachian district), but the degenerate signature persisted: with the corrected 32 prompt the five cards all collapse onto the same Armorican-Massif zone and the same exhaustive catalogue mineral list, independently of the input image. The output signature is reproducible across re-runs and is independent of the input image at the input-perturbation level tested. This separates two phenomena that the model-merging literature often conflates: strict geographic hallucination, which a context-enriched prompt corrects, and the degeneracy of uniform-density merges, which is structural and survives any prompt improvement. The degeneracy is exact rather than approximate. On the five-card sample (Huelgoat, Ker-jouanno, Pontivy, Semnon, Trieux), the merged model returned the token-identical mineral list 

[or, étain, tungstène, plomb, zinc, antimoine, arsenic, kaolin] on every card, in the same order, together with an identical geographic zone (“Massif armoricain”) and an identical MU score (0.95) and relocalization confidence (“haute”) on all five. The apparent per-card de-tection rate, which ranges from 0% to 100% across the five districts, is therefore an artefact of the matching procedure rather than a measure of discrimination: a district whose reference re-source list overlaps the generic catalogue (for instance Semnon, Pontivy, and Kerjouanno, whose expected resources are subsumed by the catalogue) scores a high apparent rate, whereas Trieux, whose single reference resource is the specific term or_alluvionnaire (alluvial gold) absent from the generic list, scores 0%. The 100% rates are thus as much a false positive as the 0% is a false negative: the model detects nothing on any card and recites a fixed Armorican catalogue, and Trieux is simply the one district where the constant response fails to coincide with the ground truth, which renders the degeneracy visible. This degenerate mode is consistent with a saturation of the merged model’s effective represen-tational rank below the dimensionality required to distinguish the five inputs: the trimming step of equation (31), applied with a uniform density across all layers, removes task-vector entries that carry low-magnitude but task-relevant geographic-feature information in the early visual layers, leaving the merged model with a sufficient capacity for fluent French generation (the dominant capability of the Mistral component) but an insufficient capacity for image-conditional discrimination. The uniform-density configuration that produces this behaviour is precisely the configuration that Section 10 argues against on theoretical grounds: the layer-wise utility function 

Φl predicts that the early visual layers carry the eigenmass for image-conditional discrimination, and applying the same density to those layers as to the late linguistic layers misallocates the trimming budget across the layer hierarchy. The empirical observation is therefore not an unanticipated failure of TIES merging but a direct confirmation of the theoretical argument for the layer-wise Φl calibration of Table 5. 

Outcome of the pre-registered test on the diagnostic sample. The merge was subse-quently re-executed under the Φl-calibrated densities of Table 5 and re-evaluated on the same five-card BRGM sample, with the prompt, the parser and the acceptance criteria held fixed. The degenerate signature does not reappear. The stereotype detector, which had flagged a token-identical response across all five districts under uniform density, returns no stereotype; the mineral lists differ across the five districts rather than reproducing a single Armorican catalogue; and the outputs are specific to each input card. Image-conditional discrimination is therefore recovered at the early layers under layer-wise calibration, the only quantity that changed between the two runs. On the pre-registered criterion of this section, the prediction is corroborated rather than falsified. Three limitations bound this conclusion. The test was executed on the five-card diagnostic sample and on inference-class hardware, not on the 200-document stratified corpus at scale-up; corroboration on five inputs establishes that the failure mode is removed, not that extraction quality meets the projected targets of Table 7. The comparison is furthermore a before-and-after on a single manipulated factor rather than a controlled ablation across density profiles, so the attribution to Φl rests on the absence of any other change rather than on a dose-response relationship. Finally, absence of the degenerate signature is a necessary and not a sufficient 33 condition for merge quality: a model may discriminate across inputs and still extract poorly, which is why the scale-up phase retains the per-input output variance as an explicit acceptance criterion alongside the aggregate scores, and reports ˆμ and drift against the same WMS ground truth used for Table 6. The diagnostic of this section therefore plays a dual role: it motivated the layer-wise calibration, and it now supplies the first corroborating evidence for it, pending replication at scale. It is worth noting that the automatic validation thresholds applied during the run (mean MU 

≥ 0.60 , gold detected ≥ 50% , high confidence ≥ 33% ) are all satisfied by this degenerate output, precisely because a model that emits a high-confidence constant response clears such aggregate gates without performing any image-conditional discrimination. The degeneracy is revealed only by the finer diagnostic of token-identical outputs reported above, which is the reason the scale-up phase adopts the per-input variance of the output as an explicit acceptance criterion alongside the aggregate scores. 

## 12.7 Limitations and scope of the conclusion 

The measured frugality validation reported in this section covers one of the ten fields of the empirical MU score (Section 9.2) and is therefore not a substitute for the full extraction-stage benchmark, whose projections are reported in Section 11 and whose execution is scheduled for the scale-up phase. The three research questions that operationally defined Phase 2 (Section 12.1) are each addressed by an executed empirical artefact: Q1 (frugal classifier substitution) by the measurement of Table 8; Q2 (multimodal text-plus-image recovery of the coordinate reference system) by the prompt-engineered re-evaluation of the merged model documented in the project notebook; and Q3 (segmentation-task model merging) by the diagnostic of Section 12.6 in the negative-result sense that uniform-density merging is shown to fail in the geo-mining setting, motivating the Φl-calibrated merge whose diagnostic-scale corroboration is reported in the same section and whose execution at scale is scheduled for the scale-up phase. Phase 2, in this opera-tional scope, is therefore executed by the work reported in this section; the scale-up extraction benchmark on the 200-document stratified BRGM corpus with Φl-calibrated TIES merging and LoRA fine-tuning is the next empirical step. The classification audit asymmetry (50 audited cards for Gemini against 170 test cards for the classifier) is acknowledged in Section 12.4 and is the principal residual uncertainty on the headline number. 

Paired re-annotation protocol. To resolve the asymmetry, a paired annotation campaign is under way in which two independent expert annotators label the full 170-card test split against the same taxonomy. The design serves three purposes at once. First, it establishes a common human reference against which both the proprietary labels and the sovereign classifier are scored, replacing the present unpaired comparison, whose binomial intervals overlap over a nine-point range, by a paired McNemar comparison whose 95% interval on the accuracy difference is ap-proximately ±4.8 points at a plausible ten-percent discordance rate. Second, the overlap between the two annotators yields a genuine inter-annotator agreement statistic, Cohen’s κ, at both tax-onomy levels, with a confidence interval roughly half as wide as the 50-card audit would afford; this is the statistic that substantiates the claim of Section 12.4 that level-2 boundaries are in-trinsically ambiguous, and that bounds the accuracy attainable by any classifier trained on these labels. Third, it removes the labelling-protocol caveat from the level-2 result. The campaign is scheduled to complete before the scale-up benchmark; its results will be reported as a sepa-rate table, and the level-1 and level-2 readings below should be understood as provisional until then. Until that audit is performed, the level-1 result should be read as “the sovereign classifier matches proprietary accuracy within the binomial-confidence overlap of the two samples”, and the level-2 result as “the sovereign classifier approaches but remains below proprietary accuracy 34 (55.9% against 60.0%) under the same caveat, leaving a residual gap that motivates the level-2 refinements identified in Section 12.4”. 

# 13 The document parsing approach: architecture of anticipated interface and comparative protocol 

A parallel development stream, conducted by a project partner specialising in industrial docu-ment intelligence, has produced a document parsing pipeline that extracts structured content from heterogeneous document formats using a combination of layout analysis, OCR, and object detection. At the time of writing, this pipeline has not been integrated with the multi-pass LLM inference system described in this paper. The two approaches are presented separately in the subsections that follow, an integration architecture is suggested (pending validation), and a comparative experimentation protocol is designed to test the predictions of Sections 3.3- 10 once the integration is executed in the scale-up phase. 

## 13.1 The partner pipeline: summary 

The partner pipeline processes documents through five stages: layout detection and classification, extraction of text blocks with bounding-box and reading-order metadata, extraction of figures and captions, extraction of tables with header detection, and geolocalisation of the document content, including detection of the coordinate reference system from visual and textual cues (grid labels, north arrows, sheet reference numbers), resolution of coordinate grid labels into absolute positions, and production of a georeferenced bounding box and scale. The pipeline is designed to handle the full diversity of industrial document formats including scanned PDFs, native PDFs, and image files, and to produce output that combines layout metadata and georeferencing data in a structured representation agnostic to document language and content domain. 

## 13.2 The LLM-based pipeline: positioning 

The LLM-based approach described in this paper (designated Lot 3 ) prospers on the structured output of Lot 2 . Given a document image together with the layout metadata and georeferencing data produced by Lot 2 , Lot 3 performs the content-understanding tasks that require semantic reasoning grounded in geological domain knowledge: interpretation of mineral resources and geological formations, reading of structural data (dip directions, fault types), identification of radiometric ages, and production of the extensive legend description and reconstruction prompt that enter the final JSON schema of Figure 1. The two pipelines are therefore hierarchically complementary rather than parallel: Lot 2 establishes the spatial and structural ground truth, and Lot 3 produces the semantic layer on top of it. This division of labour is the reason the integration is genuinely value-additive: neither pipeline alone produces the full output, and the quality of Lot 3 ’s semantic extraction is conditional on the georeferencing accuracy that Lot 2 

delivers upstream. 

## 13.3 Architecture of anticipated interface 

Figure 2 specifies the anticipated integration architecture. The integration is organised around three interface channels, each corresponding to one of the three interface points identified in the v7.3 draft: legend disambiguation, coordinate interpretation, and document-type classification. Each channel is bidirectional in the architecture: the partner pipeline feeds structured evidence to the LLM, which in turn feeds semantic corrections back to the partner pipeline for its next document batch. The three channels are specified as follows. 35 Document Layout & OCR Tables & figures Structured representation Pass 1 SmolVLM Pass 2 TIES-merged Pass 3 Expert Legend CRS context Doc-type JSON output 

> semantic correction Partner pipeline ( Lot 2 )Multi-pass LLM pipeline ( Lot 3 )

Figure 2: Anticipated interface architecture between the partner document-parsing pipeline (Lot 2 ) and the multi-pass LLM inference pipeline ( Lot 3 ). The three dark interface boxes correspond to the three channels of anticipated interaction: legend disambiguation, coordinate interpretation, and document-type classification. The forward arrows represent the partner-to-LLM information flow, in which structured evidence produced by Lot 2 is injected as context into the TIES-merged model’s Pass 2. The dashed feedback arrow represents the LLM-to-partner correction channel, in which semantic disambiguations produced by Lot 3 are returned to Lot 2 

to refine layout heuristics on subsequent documents. 

Legend disambiguation channel. Lot 2 extracts legend blocks with bounding-box and symbol-label pairs at higher geometric precision than an end-to-end LLM pass can achieve. Lot 3 

resolves semantic ambiguities (BRGM vs. international legend conventions, partial legibility, non-standard symbols) using its training knowledge of geological cartography and of the specific formation-to-symbol mappings documented in the BRGM cartographic standards. The channel interface is the typed record 

{symbol-box , label-text , confidence } → { canonical-formation , disambiguation-rationale }.

CRS-conditioned semantic reasoning channel. Lot 2 detects the coordinate reference system and produces the absolute bounding box, scale reference, and grid geometry of the doc-ument. Lot 3 consumes these geographic fields as trusted context: the CRS identity and the bounding box are not re-inferred but used to ground the semantic extraction in its geological setting (for instance, to condition the likely mineral assemblages on the metallogenic province of the mapped zone, or to filter implausible formation names against the regional stratigraphic column). The channel interface is the typed record 

{CRS , bounding-box-decimal-degrees , scale , grid-geometry }→ { CRS-conditioned semantic extraction , plausibility-flags }.

Document-type classification channel. Lot 2 does not distinguish between a geological map, a borehole log, and a geophysical survey: in its representation all are images with extracted layout and georeferencing. Lot 3 performs this classification in Pass 1, and the classification drives the downstream extraction strategy (a borehole log requires depth-profile extraction; a geophysical survey requires contour interpretation). The channel interface is the typed record 

{layout-summary , georeferencing-data } → { document-type , extraction-strategy-selector }.

36 13.4 Comparative protocol 

The integration architecture of Figure 2 makes possible a falsifiable test of the theoretical pre-dictions of Sections 3.3–10. The protocol is as follows. 

Treatment conditions. Each document in the scale-up 200-document corpus is processed under four conditions: (i) Lot 3 alone, without input from Lot 2 ; (ii) Lot 3 with legend channel only; (iii) Lot 3 with all three channels; (iv) Lot 3 with all three channels plus the feedback loop (for the last 50 documents, to assess whether cross-document learning materialises). The four conditions are run in counterbalanced order within each document class to control for prompt-caching effects. 

Primary outcomes. The MU score ˆμ, the drift d in metres, the number of passes used τ , and the total token consumption per document. The predictions of the theoretical framework are: (a) the number of passes τ should decrease as structured context is added, because the effective eigenvalue concentration of the attention computation increases when the input is pre-organised; (b) the marginal reduction in τ from condition (i) to (iii) should exhibit diminishing returns across channels, in the same ordering as the MU score gain per channel; (c) the coefficient of variation of d across documents should decrease monotonically from (i) to (iv), reflecting stabilisation of the coordinate-interpretation channel. 

Statistical design. The test is a within-document paired comparison, analysed via Wilcoxon signed-rank tests on each primary outcome, with Bonferroni correction for the four conditions. The 200-document corpus provides power 0.80 to detect a difference in mean τ of 0.3 passes at 

α = 0 .01 (corrected). 

Predicted outcome structure under the marginal-utility hypothesis. If Proposition 2 correctly describes the allocation problem solved by the multi-pass pipeline, the joint evolution of (ˆ μ, τ )

across conditions (i) through (iv) should trace a trajectory on the frugality frontier of Section 11.5, with each additional channel moving the operating point toward the low-energy, high-quality corner. A trajectory that moves orthogonally to the frontier (for example, higher quality at higher energy cost, without reduction in τ ) would falsify the prediction and motivate a revised allocation model. The design of this comparative experiment is executed in the scale-up phase, at which point authorship of the combined reporting expands to include the partner team. 

# 14 Axiological implications 

## Axiological displacement: a working definition 

The concept of axiological displacement used throughout this paper names a specific failure mode of AI-integrated systems that is related to, but distinct from, the more familiar notion of value misalignment. Value misalignment, as discussed in the alignment literature [Bommasani et al., 2021], refers to a discrepancy between the objective function that a system optimises and the values that its deployers or users would endorse on reflection: the system pursues the wrong goal. Axiological displacement [Gans Combe, 2025] refers to a second-order phenomenon in which the system does not merely pursue a different goal but autonomously transforms the space of what counts as valuable for the sociotechnical assemblage in which it is embedded. The system does not miss a pre-specified target; it shifts the target. The distinction matters for the present paper in two ways. First, the KV cache compression problem of Section 6 is a compact instance of displacement rather than of misalignment: the model’s learned attention preferences (first-order values) are not violated by compression in the alignment sense; they are re-weighted by a compression criterion (memory budget) that was never part of the original preference specification, and the re-weighting propagates into downstream outputs whose quality the model has no mechanism to monitor. The displacement is visible only in the spectrum of W V W ⊤ after compression, not in any individual attention score, which is why the W V W ⊤ framework developed here is epistemically necessary rather than 37 merely descriptive. Second, the sovereignty and frugality constraints of Sections 8 and 11.5 are themselves displacement-reducing interventions: they bind the operator to an auditable utility function expressed in observable weight matrices, as opposed to the opaque and potentially shifting utility functions of proprietary API-served models whose weights, training data, and fine-tuning procedures are not inspectable. A system whose values cannot be read is a system whose values cannot be checked for displacement. The reader who prefers to stay within the standard alignment vocabulary can treat axio-logical displacement as the dynamic, second-order variant of value misalignment: misalignment about which values are operative, not misalignment between a fixed value specification and a behavioural outcome. The formal consequences for the allocation rule of Proposition 2 are the same either way: the shadow price γ must be specified by an auditable process, and the spectrum 

(λj ) must be observable on the deployed model, or the rule is not operationalisable. 

## 14.1 The hidden utility model in attention 

The softmax operation over dot-product similarities implicitly defines a utility function over tokens: 

Uattn (i | t) = exp( qtk⊤ 

> i

/√dh)

P 

> j

exp( qtk⊤ 

> j

/√dh) . (37) This is a specific cardinal utility representation over the token space, learned implicitly during training. The KV cache eviction problem is therefore a resource-allocation problem under this implicit utility function: the model has a preference ordering over tokens, and the eviction policy either respects or violates this ordering. The W V W ⊤ framework makes this utility explicit in spectral form: the eigenvalues of the projected covariance are the model’s revealed preferences over representational dimensions. 

## 14.2 Axiological displacement in cache compression 

From the perspective of axiological displacement theory (the process by which AI systems au-tonomously transform what counts as valuable [Gans Combe, 2025]), KV cache compression introduces a second-order transformation of values. The model’s first-order values are encoded in attention weights; cache compression introduces constraints that distort these first-order values by evicting tokens below a memory budget threshold, not because of their semantic unimpor-tance. The W V W ⊤-based compression criterion minimizes this displacement: by preserving the directions of highest eigenvalue, it retains the representational dimensions most aligned with the model’s learned utility structure. Random or recency-based eviction introduces arbitrary distortions that may systematically favor recently seen tokens (which are not necessarily the most semantically important) over earlier tokens (which may encode the coordinate system or the scale reference on which the entire georeferencing task depends). In the geo-mining context, this observation has direct practical consequences. A geologi-cal map typically encodes the coordinate reference system in the top-left corner or along the margins, which corresponds to low sequence-position tokens in an autoregressive reading order. A recency-based KV eviction policy would systematically evict these CRS-encoding tokens in favor of the more recent content in the center and right of the image, precisely inverting the priority ordering that the georeferencing task requires. The W V W ⊤-based eviction policy, by contrast, would retain CRS tokens because they occupy a high-eigenvalue direction in the pro-jected representation space: the model has learned, through training on geological documents, that coordinate system information is more valuable than most other content. 38 14.3 Sustainable inference and the information–energy tradeoff 

The marginal energy cost of retaining the j-th cache dimension is proportional to the memory bandwidth consumed by that dimension across all attention operations. The social optimum sets marginal energy cost equal to marginal utility λj (W V W ⊤), yielding the rank r∗ that equates information value and environmental cost. This connects directly to Activity-Based Costing enhanced by machine learning: the true cost of an inference operation includes the energy-weighted cost of KV-cache memory operations, and allocation should be proportional to the utility (eigenvalue share) each head contributes. For an industrial operator subject to carbon accounting obligations, this means that the choice of compression ratio is not merely a performance engineering decision but an ESG decision with reportable consequences. The framework developed in this paper provides the principled quantitative basis for this decision: the compression ratio r∗/d h should be set equal to 1 − εelbow ,where εelbow is calibrated by the shadow price of energy rather than the shadow price of model complexity. 

# 15 Synthesis: a unified allocation rule 

Proposition 2 (Unified marginal-utility allocation) . Given a resource budget M and a pool of information sources with marginal utility schedule λ1 ≥ λ2 ≥ · · · ≥ λn ≥ 0, the optimal allocation retains the top k∗ sources where 

k∗ = max {k : λk ≥ γ}, (38) 

with γ the shadow price of the resource constraint. 

Table 9 instantiates this rule across all frameworks discussed. Table 9: The unified allocation rule across frameworks.                                         

> Framework Resource Sources Utility schedule Shadow price γ
> MF rank selection Model complexity Latent factors σ2
> jRegularization
> λ
> KV cache eviction GPU memory Cached tokens Attention scores at,i
> Memory bud-get Cache compression Memory bandwidth Value dimensions λj(W V W ⊤)Latency cost LoRA rank selec-tion Parameter budget Adapter dimen-sions Fisher eigenval-ues Compute bud-get Multi-pass infer-ence Token budget Analysis passes MU score ˆμkEnergy cost/pass TIES trimming Weight budget Task-vector entries |δpi|Interference risk Multi-objective fru-gality Operator prefer-ence Objectives (quality, drift, energy)
> ¯y−λM
> 2Σw
> (eq. (35)) Risk aversion
> λM

The W V W ⊤ operator is the algebraic mechanism that makes this unification possible: it transforms raw data covariance ( V ) into the model’s learned representation of utility ( W ), con-necting the statistical structure of the data to the architectural commitments of the model. The addition of the multi-pass inference row and the TIES trimming row to Table 9 (relative to the theoretical framework presented in Gans Combe [2025] at the CIOs, AI and the Outlook for IT Modernization Conference held at George Mason University on 9 December 2025), together with the multi-objective frugality row introduced in Section 11.5, demonstrates that the same princi-ple governs not only the static compression problem but also the dynamic sequential inference problem, the weight-space merging problem, and the operator deployment-preference problem. All instances are variants of the consumer’s fundamental problem: allocate a finite resource across sources of diminishing marginal return until the marginal gain equals the marginal cost. 39 16 Open problems 

Four research directions, identified in the original formulation, remain open and are sharpened by the application context. 

Non-stationary marginal utility. The eigenvalue spectrum of W V W ⊤ changes during a generation sequence as new tokens are processed. Static compression schemes based on the initial spectrum will be suboptimal for long-context generation. In the geo-mining context, this is particularly acute for borehole logs, where the most information-dense tokens (depth measurements, mineralogical observations) are distributed throughout the sequence rather than concentrated at the beginning. Online updates to the compression basis, analogous to online PCA (principal component analysis performed incrementally on a data stream: the eigenbasis is updated with each new observation via a rank-one correction, avoiding the need to store or reprocess past data [Oja, 1982]), could adaptively reallocate the KV cache budget as new tokens are processed. 

Cross-head utility correlation. Different attention heads are not independent: heads in the same layer share keys and values in multi-head attention, creating correlations in their W V W ⊤

spectra. A fully optimal compression scheme would account for inter-head covariance, a problem analogous to portfolio optimization under correlated asset returns. The Herfindahl–Hirschman Index approach of Section 7 treats heads as independent; incorporating the off-diagonal terms of the inter-head covariance matrix would require solving a Markowitz-type portfolio problem at the level of heads. 

Task-conditional utility. The marginal utility of a cached dimension depends on the down-stream task. A compression scheme optimal for geo-map interpretation may be suboptimal for borehole log analysis, which requires different semantic dimensions. Conditioning W V W ⊤-based compression on task-specific utility functions (analogous to personalized MF loss functions) is an important direction for multi-task deployments. 

The W V W ⊤ inverse problem. Given a desired output utility profile (for example, from geological expert annotations), can one infer the optimal W ? This is the inverse problem: rather than computing utility from weights, design weights to achieve a target utility distribution. This connects to representation alignment and value-sensitive architecture design, and in the geo-mining context, it corresponds to the question of whether the merged model’s attention can be made to focus on the specific cartographic elements (coordinate grids, scale bars, north arrows) that are most useful for georeferencing, regardless of their visual salience in the raw image. 

Higher-dimensional frugality and robust estimation of Σ. The multi-objective scalari-sation (35)–(36) of Section 11.5 restricts the objective vector to three components (quality, drift, energy). An operator-grade frugality framework will require additional dimensions, at minimum latency variance, memory peak, and legal risk exposure under the EU AI Act. The covariance ma-trix Σ then grows quadratically in dimension while the validation corpus grows only linearly. For the three-dimensional objective of Section 11.5 on a 200-document corpus, the ratio p/n = 0 .015 

is well within the regime where empirical covariance estimation is reliable. The effective con-straint is not convergence but adversarial robustness: extensions to higher-dimensional frugality (latency variance, peak memory, EU AI Act legal exposure) push the ratio toward p/n ≥ 0.10 at dimension p ≥ 20 , where sample covariance estimators become sensitive to small perturbations of the data and regularised alternatives are warranted. Factor-structure approximations, analogous to the Fama–French factor models in portfolio theory, are a natural tractable alternative: a small number of latent factors (for example, a compute factor loading on tokens, energy, and latency, 40 and a quality factor loading on MU and CVaR drift) would shrink the number of parameters to estimate while preserving the essential covariance structure. Hierarchical Bayesian estimation of Σ and adversarial-robustness characterisation of w∗ under perturbations of Σ are the natural next steps for making the frugality optimisation operationally reliable at scale. 

# 17 Conclusion 

The equation W V W ⊤, the KV cache, and the classical notion of marginal utility are, at their core, statements about the same problem: how to allocate limited representational resources across sources of diminishing marginal return. The eigenvalue spectrum of W V W ⊤ is the utility schedule for the model’s learned representation; the KV cache eviction problem is constrained utility maximization under memory budget; and low-rank compression of the cache is the tech-nical implementation of the consumer’s optimal stopping rule. This paper has extended the original theoretical framework in five directions: (i) a formal proof that matrix factorisation, KV cache management, TIES model merging, and multi-pass in-ference are all instances of the same unified allocation rule of Proposition 2; (ii) a layer-wise TIES merging procedure calibrated by Φl; (iii) a multi-objective frugality scalarisation with a CVaR tail-risk term on drift; (iv) a sovereign AI deployment framework where model choice, compres-sion, and stopping thresholds are jointly constrained by regulatory, economic, and geopolitical factors; and (v) a measured frugality validation on the Orano uranium-exploration classification sub-task (Athabasca Basin and Namibia uranium belt), in which an 11.2-million-parameter hier-archical ResNet18 reaches Gemini 2.5 Pro accuracy at level 1 within two percentage points and approaches it at level 2 while remaining below it (55.9% against 60.0%), at a per-card inference latency of 2.62 ms against approximately 2,000 ms for the proprietary API and at a per-card cost effectively reduced to zero (Section 12). The classifier measurement, together with the multimodal CRS demonstration and the TIES degenerate-mode diagnostic of Section 12.6, jointly constitute the executed Phase 2 of the project, addressing the three research questions that operationally defined it. The frugality argument made for the merged extraction architecture in Section 11, which currently rests on projection, is therefore operationally realisable in the sense that at least one stage of the same pipeline now achieves the predicted gains under direct measurement, while a second stage (TIES merge) is empirically diagnosed in a manner that motivates the layer-wise Φl calibration, and the calibrated re-execution removes the diagnosed failure mode on the diagnostic sample, corroborating the architectural prediction without yet establishing extraction quality at scale. The remaining empirical step is the scale-up extraction benchmark on the 200-document stratified BRGM corpus with Φl-calibrated TIES merging and LoRA fine-tuning; this scale-up is the natural extension of the present work and the principal next deliverable of the project. Beyond the measured numbers, the broader claim of the paper retains its original form. Every architectural choice in a transformer (attention mechanism, value projection, cache policy, com-pression ratio, merging weights, stopping threshold, operator preference weighting, classification head granularity) encodes an implicit utility function. Making these utility functions explicit, auditable, and aligned with human values is the central challenge of responsible AI architecture design. The W V W ⊤ framework is a step toward that goal: it provides the mathematical vo-cabulary to read the model’s preferences from its weights, to compare them with the operator’s intended utility function, and to correct them when they diverge. The hierarchical classifier of Section 12 is, on this reading, not an isolated engineering result but the simplest instantiation of that framework: a transparent, auditable, deterministic, sovereign sub-model whose utility function is fully readable off its eleven million parameters, deployed at four orders of magnitude below the proprietary baseline, and matching its accuracy where it matters. 41 Acknowledgments 

The author thanks the industrial partners for providing the operational context, domain ex-pertise, and access to the geo-mining document corpus that grounds the application sections of this paper. The document parsing approach described in Section 13 was developed building on a project partner team whose work is ongoing at the time of writing; the integration and its comparative experiments are scheduled for the scale-up phase, at which point authorship of the combined reporting could potentially expand to include the partner team. Likewise, the author thanks Prof. BHUYAN Bikram Pratim for his reading, suggestions and always sharp eyes on the issues raised by this paper. Financial support was provided by BPI France under the France 2030 program. BRGM geodata (InfoTerre, ODMGM, BD Charm-50) are used under Licence Ouverte v2.0 (Etalab). 

# List of acronyms 

The following table lists every acronym used in this paper in the order in which it first appears, together with its full expansion and the section in which it is introduced. Acronym Full form First used Note MF Matrix factorization §2 Core subject of Sections 2–3. SVD Singular value decomposi-tion §2.2 Provides the Eckart–Young–Mirsky theorem underpinning the spectral analysis throughout. DMU Diminishing marginal utility §2.1 Holds when ∂2U/∂x 2 

> i

< 0; the cen-tral economic property linking all three frameworks. CES Constant elasticity of substi-tution Table 1 Flexible utility specification with elasticity parameter ρ < 1.KV Key–Value (cache) §1 The memory structure in autore-gressive transformers storing the K

and V matrices of all previous to-kens. 

W V W ⊤ Value-projection Gram ma-trix §4 Not an acronym; shorthand for the projected covariance operator M =

W V W ⊤ ∈ Rk×k (equation (12)). MU Marginal utility §1 Used both in the classical economic sense (§2.1) and as the label for the empirical extraction-quality proxy 

ˆμk (§9.2). FOC First-order condition Table 3 The optimality condition 

λr∗ (W V W ⊤) = γ obtained by differentiating the net benefit 

B(r) − γC (r) with respect to r

(equation (24), §6.2). HHI Herfindahl–Hirschman Index §7 Concentration measure applied to the eigenvalue spectrum of each at-tention head (equation (26)). 42 List of acronyms, continued. 

Acronym Full form First used Note TIES Trim, Elect sign, Merge §1 Three-step model-merging proce-dure of Yadav et al. [2023]; the trimming step implements the k∗ =max {k : λk ≥ γ} rule in weight space (§10). LoRA Low-Rank Adaptation §1 Parameter-efficient fine-tuning [Hu et al., 2022]: adds trainable rank-

r matrices B ∈ Rd×r, A ∈ Rr×k to frozen weight matrices. CVaR Conditional Value-at-Risk §11.5 CVaR α(d) = E[d | d ≥ VaR α(d)] ;tail-risk measure applied to georef-erencing drift in the multi-objective scalarisation (equation (36)). AI Artificial intelligence §1 Used in the standard sense through-out. LLM Large language model §1 A transformer-based language model at the scale of billions of parameters; the primary technology of the inference pipeline. API Application Programming Interface §8 A remote inference endpoint (e.g. Google Gemini API, OpenAI API); contrasted with locally deployed sovereign models throughout §11. GPU Graphics Processing Unit §5.1 The accelerator hardware used for both training and inference; GPU memory is the binding resource con-straint in §6. OCR Optical Character Recogni-tion §9.1 Text extraction from document im-ages; implemented in the pipeline via Tesseract. CRS Coordinate Reference Sys-tem §9.1 The geodetic datum and projection specifying how coordinates relate to the Earth’s surface (e.g. EPSG:4326 = WGS84 geographic, EPSG:2154 = Lambert-93). EPSG European Petroleum Survey Group (codes registry) §9.1 Numerical identifier for coordinate reference systems maintained by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers. JSON JavaScript Object Notation §9.1 Structured text format used as the output schema of the multi-pass pipeline (Figure 1). GIS Geographic Information Sys-tem §9 Software environment for spatial data (e.g. QGIS, ArcGIS); the pipeline exports GeoJSON compat-ible with these tools. 43 List of acronyms, continued. 

Acronym Full form First used Note PCA Principal Component Analy-sis §16 Referenced as the offline analog of the proposed online KV-cache basis update for non-stationary token se-quences. BRGM Bureau de Recherches Géologiques et Minières §11 France’s national geological survey; source of reference bounding boxes (BD Charm-50, §11) and of the mineral deposit database ODMGM used to construct the 200-document scale-up corpus (§11.2). WFS Web Feature Service §11 OGC standard for querying geospa-tial vector data over HTTP; used here to retrieve BRGM reference bounding boxes from the InfoTerre service in EPSG:4326. ESG Environmental, Social, and Governance §14.3 Corporate reporting framework; §14.3 argues that inference energy allocation is an ESG decision with consequences under the EU CSRD. CSRD Corporate Sustainability Re-porting Directive §14.3 EU directive (2022/2464) requiring large organisations to report non-financial sustainability data includ-ing energy consumption. OSI Open Source Initiative §8 Standards body that certifies open-source licenses; Apache 2.0 is OSI-approved. GDPR General Data Protection Regulation §8 EU data-protection regulation (2016/679); relevant to data resi-dency requirements for document transmission to non-European servers. AL2 Apache License 2.0 Table 4 Permissive OSI-approved open-source license permitting com-mercial use, modification, and redistribution without royalty obli-gations or behavioral restrictions. ML Meta Community License Table 4 Custom license applied to Llama models; restricts certain commercial uses and derivative model develop-ment. GT Gemma Terms of Use Table 4 Google’s custom license for Gemma 1/2/3; superseded by Apache 2.0 starting with Gemma 4 (April 2026). CC4 Creative Commons Attribu-tion 4.0 International Table 4 Open license applied to Crois-santLLM; permits commercial use with attribution. 44 List of acronyms, continued. 

Acronym Full form First used Note PR Proprietary Table 4 Denotes models whose weights are not publicly released (GPT-4o, Gemini 2.5 Pro / 2.5 Flash / 3.5 Flash / 3.1 Flash-Lite, Claude); in-cluded in the benchmark as refer-ence only. CNN Convolutional Neural Net-work §12 Class of feedforward neural networks using learned convolutional filters; standard backbone for image classi-fication on which ResNet18 is built. ResNet Residual Network §12 Convolutional architecture intro-ducing identity skip connections [He et al., 2016]; the 18-layer variant used here has 11.2 million parame-ters. 45 A Proof of Proposition 2 

We restate the proposition for the reader’s convenience, then establish the allocation rule by a KKT argument on the Boolean lattice and verify exhaustiveness across the instances of Table 9. 

Proposition 2 (restated). Let (λj )nj=1 be a non-increasing sequence of non-negative marginal utilities, let c > 0 be a uniform unit cost of retaining a source, and let M > 0 be a total resource budget. The allocation problem 

max 

> S⊆{ 1,...,n }

X

> j∈S

λj , subject to c · | S| ≤ M, (39) 

admits the solution 

S∗ = {1, . . . , k ∗}, k∗ = max {k : λk ≥ γc }, (40) 

where γ ≥ 0 is the Lagrange multiplier of the budget constraint, determined by the binding budget or, if the budget is non-binding, by γ = 0 . Under the normalisation c = 1 adopted in the main text (so that γ denotes the shadow price per source rather than per unit of budget), the threshold takes the compact form k∗ = max {k : λk ≥ γ} of Proposition 2. The rule is exhaustive: every instance listed in Table 9 is an instance of (39) under the correspondence given in that table. Proof of Proposition 2. The problem (39) is a linear set-valued optimisation on the Boolean lattice 2{1,...,n }. Because the objective is additively separable in j and the constraint depends only on |S|, the optimal set is characterised entirely by a threshold. Write the Lagrangian 

L(S, γ ) = X

> j∈S

λj − γ c · | S| − M  = X

> j∈S

(λj − γc ) + γM. 

For any fixed γ ≥ 0, the inner maximisation over S includes index j if and only if λj −γc ≥ 0. Be-cause (λj ) is non-increasing, the set of included indices is a prefix {1, . . . , k ∗} with k∗ = max {k :

λk ≥ γc }, which under the normalisation c = 1 coincides with (40). The outer minimisation over 

γ ≥ 0 selects the smallest γ compatible with c · | S∗| ≤ M : if c · n ≤ M the budget is non-binding and γ = 0 recovers the unconstrained optimum S∗ = {1, . . . , n }; otherwise γ is the unique value for which c · k∗(γ) = M , and complementary slackness identifies γ with the marginal value of an additional unit of budget. Exhaustiveness across the instances of Table 9 is verified case by case. For matrix factorisation rank selection, λj = σ2 

> j

(R) by Eckart–Young–Mirsky (equation (7)) and γ is the regularisation multiplier λ of equation (3). For KV cache eviction, λj is the empirical attention share at,i and γ

the memory shadow price of Section 5. For low-rank cache compression, λj is the j-th eigenvalue of W V W ⊤ by Proposition 1 and γ the latency cost of equation (24). For LoRA rank selection, 

λj is the j-th eigenvalue of the Fisher information matrix of the adapter parameters (Section 1) and γ the compute budget. For multi-pass inference, λj is the expected marginal quality of the 

j-th pass normalised by the first-pass quality, and γ the energy cost per pass (equation (30)). For TIES trimming, λj is the absolute magnitude |δpi | of the p-th task-vector entry, ordered across p,and γ the density threshold ρi of equation (31). For multi-objective frugality, the reduction is less immediate because the objective is quadratic rather than linear; the equivalence is established in the remark below. 

Remark on the reduction of the multi-objective frugality problem. The scalarisa-tion (35) differs from (39) in that the objective is quadratic in w rather than linear in a set-indicator. The reduction proceeds by observing that, at the interior optimum, the first-order condition ¯y − λM Σw∗ = μ1 (with μ the simplex multiplier) implies that each coordinate w∗ 

> i

is retained in the active set of the allocation if and only if its risk-adjusted return ¯yi − λM (Σ w∗)i

exceeds the shadow price μ. This is the threshold rule (40) with λj identified with the risk-adjusted marginal utility at the solution, which preserves the unified structure at the cost of a 46 fixed-point characterisation rather than a closed-form solution. The non-closed-form character of the reduction is the price paid for admitting non-diagonal covariance structure in the objective space and is unavoidable under any coherent-risk extension. 

# References 

Gediminas Adomavicius and Alexander Tuzhilin. Toward the next generation of recommender systems: a survey of the state-of-the-art and possible extensions. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering , 17(6):734–749, 2005. doi: 10.1109/TKDE.2005.99. Emily M. Bender, Timnit Gebru, Angelina McMillan-Major, and Shmargaret Shmitchell. On the dangers of stochastic parrots: can language models be too big? In Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT) , pages 610–623, 2021. doi: 10.1145/3442188.3445922. Rishi Bommasani, Drew A. Hudson, Ehsan Adeli, et al. On the opportunities and risks of foundation models. Technical report, Stanford Center for Research on Foundation Models, 2021. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.07258 .Carl Eckart and Gale Young. The approximation of one matrix by another of lower rank. 

Psychometrika , 1(3):211–218, 1936. doi: 10.1007/BF02288367. Caroline Gans Combe. Axiological displacement in AI-integrated systems: a unified framework for marginal utility, matrix factorization, and the Key–Value cache. Invited presentation, CIOs, AI and the Outlook for IT Modernization Conference, Center for Excellence in Government Cybersecurity Risk Management and Resilience, George Ma-son University, Fairfax, Virginia, USA, December 2025. URL https://crc.gmu.edu/ event-speakers-for-cios-ai-and-the-outlook-for-it-modernization-conference/ .Presented 9 December 2025. Gemma Team, Sherif El Abd, Vaibhav Aggarwal, et al. Gemma 4 technical report, 2026. URL 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2607.02770 . Submitted 2 July 2026; revised 24 July 2026. Hermann Heinrich Gossen. Entwicklung der Gesetze des menschlichen Verkehrs . Vieweg, Braun-schweig, 1854. Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-nition (CVPR) , pages 770–778, 2016. doi: 10.1109/CVPR.2016.90. Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and Weizhu Chen. LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. In 

International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2022. William Stanley Jevons. The Theory of Political Economy . Macmillan, London, 1871. Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lu-cile Saulnier, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix, and William El Sayed. Mistral 7B, 2023. 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06825 .Yehuda Koren, Robert Bell, and Chris Volinsky. Matrix factorization techniques for recommender systems. Computer , 42(8):30–37, 2009. doi: 10.1109/MC.2009.263. 47 Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. Efficient memory management for large language model serving with PagedAttention. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP) , pages 611–626, 2023. doi: 10.1145/3600006.3613165. Hugo Laurençon, Léo Tronchon, Matthieu Cord, and Victor Sanh. What matters when building vision-language models? In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) ,volume 37, 2024. https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02246 .Olivier Ledoit and Michael Wolf. A well-conditioned estimator for large-dimensional covariance matrices. Journal of Multivariate Analysis , 88(2):365–411, 2004. doi: 10.1016/S0047-259X(03) 00096-4. Andreu Mas-Colell, Michael D. Whinston, and Jerry R. Green. Microeconomic Theory . Oxford University Press, New York, 1995. ISBN 978-0-19-510268-0. Erkki Oja. A simplified neuron model as a principal component analyzer. Journal of Mathematical Biology , 15(3):267–273, 1982. doi: 10.1007/BF00275687. Reiner Pope, Sholto Douglas, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Jacob Devlin, James Bradbury, Anselm Levskaya, Jonathan Heek, Kefan Xiao, Shivani Agrawal, and Jeff Dean. Efficiently scaling transformer inference. In Proceedings of Machine Learning and Systems (MLSys) , volume 5, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.05102 . Outstanding Paper Award. Steffen Rendle, Christoph Freudenthaler, Zeno Gantner, and Lars Schmidt-Thieme. BPR: Bayesian personalized ranking from implicit feedback. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI) , pages 452–461, 2009. R. Tyrrell Rockafellar and Stanislav Uryasev. Optimization of conditional value-at-risk. Journal of Risk , 2(3):21–41, 2000. doi: 10.21314/JOR.2000.038. Roy Schwartz, Jesse Dodge, Noah A. Smith, and Oren Etzioni. Green AI. Communications of the ACM , 63(12):54–63, 2020. doi: 10.1145/3381831. Charlie Snell, Jaehoon Lee, Kelvin Xu, and Aviral Kumar. Scaling LLM test-time compute optimally can be more effective than scaling model parameters, 2024. https://arxiv.org/ abs/2408.03314 .Emma Strubell, Ananya Ganesh, and Andrew McCallum. Energy and policy considerations for deep learning in NLP. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) , pages 3645–3650, 2019. doi: 10.18653/v1/P19-1355. Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. In Advances in Neu-ral Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , volume 30, pages 5998–6008, 2017. https: //arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762 .Elena Voita, David Talbot, Fedor Moiseev, Rico Sennrich, and Ivan Titov. Analyzing multi-head self-attention: Specialized heads do the heavy lifting, the rest can be pruned. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL) , pages 5797–5808, 2019. doi: 10.18653/v1/P19-1580. Guangxuan Xiao, Yuandong Tian, Beidi Chen, Song Han, and Mike Lewis. Efficient streaming language models with attention sinks. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) , 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17453 .48 Prateek Yadav, Derek Tam, Leshem Choshen, Colin Raffel, and Mohit Bansal. TIES-merging: Resolving interference when merging models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , volume 36, 2023. https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01708 .Zhenyu Zhang, Ying Sheng, Tianyi Zhou, Tianlong Chen, Lianmin Zheng, Ruisi Cai, Zhao Song, Yuandong Tian, Christopher Ré, Clark Barrett, Zhangyang Wang, and Beidi Chen. H2O: Heavy-hitter oracle for efficient generative inference of large language models. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , volume 36, 2023. https://arxiv.org/ abs/2306.14048 .49