Title: Capture the lifecycle: KV Cache management in ReAct Agents with KVTether

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.39819v1

Published Time: Thu, 01 Oct 2026 01:52:01 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Capture the lifecycle: KV Cache management in ReAct Agents with KVTether 

Kaihua Fu 1,* Yukun Zhou 1,* Chaokun Chang 1 Yinghao Yu 2 Luping Wang 2

Guodong Yang 2 Jiuchen Shi 3 Quan Chen 3 Wei Wang 1

> 1

Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 

> 2

Alibaba Group 3Shanghai Jiao Tong University 

> *Equal contribution.

## Abstract 

Efficient serving of long-context reasoning-and-acting (Re-Act) agents relies on KV cache reuse to reduce large language model (LLM) prefill latency and monetary cost. However, a se-mantic gap exists between agent harnesses and the underly-ing serving stack. Through context mutation, tool execution, and subagent coordination, context messages may become actively engaged, permanently discarded, and temporarily unused, while the serving stack only observes accesses to the corresponding KV cache. This lifecycle blindness prevents recency-only policies such as LRU from reclaiming dead KV promptly and from preserving older KV that will be reused sooner than newer entries. We present KVTether , a lifecycle-aware KV cache man-agement framework for ReAct agents. By tracing seman-tic primitives embedded in agent harnesses, KVTether cap-tures runtime lifecycle semantics during highly dynamic execution. KVTether then translates message-level seman-tics into KV-level lifecycle states and uses these states to drive state-prioritized cache management without exposing physical complexities to agent harnesses. After reclaiming dead KV, KVTether preferentially preserves live-but-idle KV that is waiting for reuse, reducing premature eviction before reuse. Across agent benchmarks and production workloads, KVTether reduces end-to-end request latency by up to 26.3% and 17.4% relative to LMCache and MORI, respectively, and lowers estimated task cost by 40.0% and 33.2% on average. 

## 1 Introduction 

Large language model (LLM) applications are evolving from interactive chatbots to autonomous agents. Mainstream agents such as Claude Code [2], Codex [23], OpenClaw [26], and Hermes [20] execute user requests through a reasoning-and-acting (ReAct) loop [34] interleaving LLM inference with tool calls. Over tens to hundreds of ReAct turns, a request can accumulate hundreds of thousands of tokens; for exam-ple, a Codex request can reach a 258K-token context. KV cache reuse is essential to avoid repeated prefill of these long contexts [8], reducing inference latency and cost. Yet retaining KV is costly: in GLM-4.7 [36], a 258K-token context requires 93GB of KV cache. Efficient KV-cache management is therefore essential for practical ReAct-agent serving. Step i: Compaction Step i+1: Message Append Step i+2: Subagent Call           

> Msys M1 …Mi−1
> Create Compaction Context
> Msys com. M1 …Mi−1
> Compaction Context LLM Msys com. Mcom.
> Result Replace origin history
> Msys Mcom. LLM Msys Mcom. Mi+1 LLM Msys Mcom. Mi+1 Mi+2 Msys Mcom. Mi+1 M′ i+2
> Fork Context Long-term Message Short-term Message Temporary Message

Figure 1. An example of message lifecycle changes across three LLM calls. Within each context, long-term messages are retained for continued reuse across calls; short-term mes-sages remain reusable until removed or replaced; temporary messages expire after the current call. ReAct agents, however, expose a fundamental semantic gap between the application layer and the underlying serv-ing stack. At the application layer, the agent harness man-ages contexts through message-level operations [37] such as append, replace, remove, fork, and one-shot construc-tion, which define the logical lifecycle of messages: how long they remain reusable within each context (Figure 1). The LLM inference layer (e.g., vLLM [15] and SGLang [39]) trans-lates these contexts into token sequences, from which the KV-cache storage layer (e.g., MoonCake Store [28] and LM-Cache [7]) observes only cache pages, shared prefixes, and access events. As a result, physical KV residency can diverge from the logical lifecycles of source messages: the storage layer cannot tell whether a cached KV span is logically live, explicitly retained, temporarily waiting, or already dead. Our analysis of two production traces from a large cloud provider and a widely used agent benchmark reveals two common inefficiencies caused by this lack of lifecycle visibil-ity (§2.4). First, KV can remain physically resident as zombie KV after its logical lifetime ends. For example, after a com-paction subagent replaces a long history with a summary, both the discarded history and the one-shot compaction con-text are logically dead, yet their KV may persist until passive eviction. Our replay shows that zombie KV can occupy up to 36.3% of LMCache’s capacity. Second, recency-only poli-cies such as LRU can misorder live KV. Across the three workloads, 71.0–95.0% of LRU evictions are wrong-direction: admitted KV is needed later than the resident KV it displaces. This happens because recently produced KV in ReAct agents often awaits tool execution, scheduling, or subagent coordi-nation rather than being closest to reuse. Both inefficiencies 

> 1arXiv:2609.39819v1 [cs.OS] 30 Sep 2026

arise because the serving stack cannot distinguish dead from live KV or waiting from cold KV. These observations motivate lifecycle-aware agent serv-ing, which requires exposing lifecycle information to the serving stack as it is generated. Prior works on agentic work-flows [5, 38] infer KV importance from predefined workflow structures [11, 22, 29] or execution histories, but this is insuf-ficient for ReAct agents. Their execution topology is created at runtime through context mutations, tool results, and sub-agent decisions rather than by a stable structure visible in advance; in one industrial trace, the fraction of LLM rounds executed by sub-agents ranges from 1.6% to 86.5% across re-quests (§2.2). More fundamentally, lifecycle-defining events such as message replacement, removal, one-shot construc-tion, and retention exist only in the harness’s message-level context management, so lower layers cannot infer how KV should track application-level context changes or be retained for future reuse. ReAct-agent serving therefore requires life-cycle events to be exported from the application layer via runtime tracing and in-harness integration, rather than in-ferred downstream. Making such lifecycle export practical is challenging for three reasons. (1) Diverse agent harnesses . Different agents, and even different subagents within one agent, may realize message-level context composition through incremental ap-pends, prompt rebuilding, selective history carry-over, or one-off contexts, so ad hoc harness-side hooks quickly be-come brittle and hard to generalize. Practical lifecycle export therefore requires a harness-side integration interface that captures common context-management semantics across diverse harness behaviors. (2) Cross-layer complexity . Life-cycle information originates at the application layer, while KV management operates on physical objects such as token prefixes and cache pages. The goal is to bridge these lay-ers without requiring application developers to reason about paging, prefix organization, or eviction timing; otherwise the lifecycle-export mechanism merely shifts KV-management complexity upward [12]. (3) Uncertain reuse intervals . Even after lifecycle events are captured and dead KV can be identi-fied, live-but-idle KV remains hard to manage because their reuse intervals vary with tool behavior, LLM decisions, and deployment conditions [6]. These dynamics motivate robust KV management under runtime uncertainty, without relying on precise reuse prediction [16, 32, 33]. In this paper, we present KVTether, a lifecycle-aware KV-cache management framework for ReAct agents that exports message-level lifecycle semantics from the harness to the serving stack. KVTether comprises three design modules that work as a pipeline from semantic export to cache control. (1) Semantic primitive model (§4). KVTether places lifecycle export at the message-operation level, which matches how agent harnesses already compose and revise contexts. De-velopers use a small set of message-level primitives directly in existing context-management code, and KVTether cap-tures lifecycle events automatically from those operations. These exported events provide a common semantic interface across diverse harness behaviors and serve as the input to KVTether’s lifecycle manager. (2) Event-driven lifecycle manager (§5). KVTether uses an event-driven manager to translate exported message-level events into KV lifecycle states as cache action signals. It bridges the gap between message lists at the application layer and tokenized prefixes and cache pages in the serving stack. This design preserves precise KV control while keeping physical details transpar-ent to the application layer. (3) State-guided KV cache engine (§6). Guided by the lifecycle states produced by the manager, KVTether’s KV cache engine first reclaims space from dead KV, thereby confining the remaining uncertainty to live-but-idle KV. The further optimization is built upon a key observation that, when limited cache capacity forces space competition, newly used KV is often less urgent to re-tain than older live KV, as the execution of tools or subagents is not instantaneous. KVTether exploits this directional bias with MRU (most-recently-used) as a straightforward realiza-tion, mitigating wrong-direction evictions without relying on precise reuse prediction. We evaluate KVTether on agent benchmarks and pro-duction traces from a large cloud provider, using 12 Nvidia GB200 GPUs across three nodes (§8). We compare against LMCache [7], a strong semantic-blind KV cache, and MORI [33], an agent-aware baseline that predicts reuse from inferred request idleness. Relative to LMCache and MORI, KVTether lowers estimated task pricing by 40.0% and 33.2% on average and end-to-end request latency by up to 26.3% and 17.4%, respectively. To assess the semantic primitive model’s ease of adoption, we integrate KVTether into six agent harnesses with only 26–216 lines of integration code per harness. 

## 2 Background and Motivation 

In this seciton, we introduce ReAct execution and context lifecycles (§2.1), then use workload traces to characterize KV reuse dynamics (§2.2). We investigate missed reuse under existing policies, and show the resulting prefill cost (§2.3). We analyze two underlying cache-management failures (§2.4) and discuss related work (§2.5). 

2.1 ReAct Execution and Context Lifecycles ReAct execution and context messages. Reasoning-and-acting (ReAct) agents [2, 20, 23, 26] execute a user request as a loop that alternates LLM calls with tool execution [34]. A context manager keeps the evolving task state as an or-dered sequence of messages and assembles them into the prompt for each LLM call. Each message carries a role: Sys-tem messages encode persistent instructions or memory, User messages describe goals and constraints, and Assistant and 

Tool messages record model outputs and tool results.           

> 2Long-term Memory SubAgent Long-term.Sys Long-term.User Main.Sys Main Agent Main.Sys Main.User Main.Assistant LLM Decision Search files Web Search Shell Spawn Agent Tool Result Compact Agent Reviewer Agent C.Sys R.Sys ……Reviewer Result Main.Tool ⑤①②③④④
> Merge Merge ③
> Merge

Figure 2. A ReAct agent repeatedly composes message con-texts, calls the LLM, waits for tools or sub-agents, and up-dates the context for later rounds. 

Table 1. Min–max ranges of per-request characteristics across Codex and two production ReAct-agent traces. KV size is computed from total prefill tokens for GLM-4.7 [36].                      

> Metric Agent-G Codex Agent-X
> Total LLM rounds 9–106 3–97 3–127 Total prefill tokens 17K–312K 9K–363K 11K–374K Total decode tokens 2K–16K 536–13K 2K–11K Total KV size (GB) 6–112 3–130 4–134 Sub-agent LLM round ratio 2.8%–25.0% 2.0%–17.7% 1.6%–86.5% Distinct tool-call types 3–21 2–47 1–35

Figure 2 traces one such loop. 1 ○ A long-term-memory sub-agent prepares the System message. 2 ○ The main agent initializes its context with System and User messages. 3 ○ The LLM selects tools or sub-agent tasks and records its decisions as Assistant messages. 4 ○ The agent issues these calls and waits for the results. 5 ○ The context manager appends the results as messages. Steps 3 ○ to 5 ○ repeat until the task fin-ishes, and sub-agents keep their own contexts and may run in parallel. Because each tool and sub-agent choice depends on the accumulated context, the execution topology emerges at runtime rather than following a predefined workflow. 

Message and context lifecycles. This dynamic execu-tion creates diverse message lifecycles. Main-agent history may be reused across rounds, while a reviewer sub-agent may use task-specific messages for a single inference. A compaction sub-agent replaces older messages in the main context with a summary, ending their reuse while retaining selected instructions or memory. Child contexts may inherit parent prefixes yet evolve independently, so removing a mes-sage or terminating a context need not end reuse elsewhere. These operations determine whether the corresponding KV remains logically reusable. 

2.2 KV Reuse under Dynamic Agent Execution 

We characterize how these execution and lifecycle dynam-ics shape KV reuse across three ReAct-agent workloads. The Codex workload uses a self-deployed software engineer-ing agent based on Codex [23] to run TerminalBench [19]. 

Agent-X and Agent-G are two production coding agents de-ployed by a large cloud provider, which have a combined peak of over 27,000 active sessions; we collect 400 trajectories per agent. Table 1 summarizes per-request statistics. 1 100 10000 Longer wait / shorter wait 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% CDF 0 40 80 120 LLM round 0.1 110 100 1000 LLM Reuse Interval (s) 0 24 48 LLM round 0.1 110 Agent-G Codex Agent-X 

Figure 3. Agent workloads exhibit unstable non-LLM wait-ing intervals. (a) CDF of the longer-to-shorter ratio for adja-cent non-LLM waiting intervals. (b)–(c) Per-round non-LLM waiting times of one representative request per workload. 

Large reusable contexts. As messages accumulate across rounds, successive LLM calls often share long prefixes. Re-quests span 3–127 LLM rounds and accumulate 9K–374K prefill tokens (Table 1), making repeated prefill of these pre-fixes costly. KV reuse avoids this computation, but retain-ing reusable prefixes consumes cache capacity: these token counts correspond to 3–134 GB of KV for GLM-4.7. 

Lifecycle behavior varies across agents. Sub-agents ac-count for up to 86.5% of LLM rounds in Agent-X, versus 17.7% in Codex and 25.0% in Agent-G. Some sub-agents reuse context across rounds, so their KV may remain useful for later calls. Others discard one-off contexts after a single call, ending reuse of their exclusive KV. Token overlap identifies shared prefixes, but does not reveal when a context ends or whether another context still needs its KV. 

Reuse intervals are unstable. Requests use 1–47 distinct tool types (Table 1), whose execution affects when the next LLM call can reuse the context’s live KV. Other runtime factors, including decoding, sub-agent execution, queueing, and scheduling, further shape this reuse interval. Figure 3(a) shows wide variation in consecutive non-LLM waiting inter-vals. The 90th-percentile longer-to-shorter ratio is 144.52 ×,33.67 ×, and 204.43 × for Agent-G, Codex, and Agent-X, re-spectively. Panels (b)–(c) also show little temporal continuity within representative requests. KV liveness and reuse ordering depend on runtime execu-tion. This motivates adapting retention decisions online to changing contexts and reuse intervals. 

2.3 Low KV Hit Rates under Semantic-Blind Policies 

We now quantify the reuse opportunities missed by existing KV-management policies under these dynamics. We replay the three traces on a three-node serving cluster, with the setup given in Table 4 in §8.1. We compare two representative baselines, LMCache [7] (LMC) and MORI [33], both using a decoupled three-layer serving stack. The harness manages messages and assembles prompts for LLM calls. SGLang [39] tokenizes prompts, per-forms prefill and decode, and indexes shared prefixes, while LMCache stores the resulting KV. For KV eviction, LMC uses         

> 3Agent-X Codex Agent-G 050 100 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%) LMC MORI Theory LMC MORI LMC MORI LMC MORI 050 100 Time Breakdown (%) Agent-X Codex Agent-G Prefill Decode Tool Call

Figure 4. The theoretical maximum versus realized KV cache hit ratios (left) and aggregate execution time breakdown (right) under LMC and MORI on three workloads. LRU, whereas MORI ranks KV by relative idleness using re-cent LLM-active time and non-LLM waiting time, including tool and sub-agent waits. We report one representative load point, using 0.06, 0.05, and 0.06 requests per second (RPS) for the three workloads; §8 studies load sensitivity. Figure 4 (left) shows that realized KV cache hit ratios aver-age only 28.1% under LMC and 39.8% under MORI across the three workloads. Both fall far below the average theoretical maximum of 82.8%, which is measured by replaying each workload’s requests offline, one at a time. This decoupled serving stack creates a critical semantic gap between the harness and KV management. Message life-cycle changes in the harness are not propagated to lower layers, which manage physical residency per token or page. Without lifecycle semantics, they fall back on access history and timing signals to decide which KV to retain under ca-pacity pressure. This can leave obsolete KV resident while displacing prefixes needed by later calls. The resulting misses require recomputing reusable pre-fixes, increasing prefill work and inference cost. Figure 4 (right) shows the breakdown of execution time summed across agents, sub-agents, and tool calls, including concur-rent work. Prefill remains a substantial component, account-ing for 37.6% under LMC and 34.6% under MORI on average. Improving KV cache hit ratios could therefore substantially reduce end-to-end latency by avoiding repeated prefill. 

2.4 Two Failures Caused by the Semantic Gap 

This semantic gap leads to two cache-management failures. First, a liveness failure occurs when the system retains KV whose logical lifetime has ended. Second, an ordering failure 

arises when access history and timing signals misrepresent future reuse, causing misordered evictions among live KV. 

Liveness failure: zombie residency after lifecycle ter-mination. A zombie page is KV whose source message or context has lost all future reuse value because a request finished, a compaction replaced a history span, or a one-off context was discarded. Figure 5 reports the zombie share in the KV pool. On Agent-X, Codex, and Agent-G, LMC zombie shares peak at 31.1%, 36.3%, and 15.8%, respectively, because 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 030 60 Zombie KV (%)  Agent-X 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 030 60 Codex 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 030 60 Agent-G LMCache MORI 

Figure 5. Share of zombie pages in the KV pool under LMC and MORI on the three workloads. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 050 100 Eviction (%)  Agent-X 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 050 100 Codex 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 050 100 Agent-G LMCache MORI 

Figure 6. Wrong-direction eviction ratio of LMC and MORI on the three workloads. LMC observes only recency, not lifecycle ends. MORI ex-hibits higher average zombie occupancy, with shares peak-ing at 49.7%, 33.1%, and 27.4%, respectively, because request idleness can prioritize dead KV indefinitely. This failure is not fundamentally a prediction problem. Once the harness removes, replaces, or retires a message span, its exclusive KV has already lost future reuse value. Failing to reclaim that KV is not due to uncertain timing, but to missing lifecycle information at the point where logical reachability changes. 

Ordering failure: wrong-direction evictions among live KV. Even after excluding dead KV, capacity pressure remains among live-but-idle KV. Figure 6 reports wrong-direction evictions over one hour on each trace. Following Belady’s rule [4], the best victim is the page whose next use lies farthest in the future; an eviction is wrong-direction when a newly inserted page A displaces a resident page B even though A will be reused later than B. LMC shows average wrong-direction ratios of 79.5%, 95.0%, and 71.0% on Agent-X, Codex, and Agent-G, respectively, because LRU assumes that recently used KV is closest to reuse. ReAct agents often invert this order: newly produced KV frequently enters a waiting period while the agent de-codes, runs tools, executes sub-agents, or waits behind other requests. MORI lowers these ratios to 57.8%, 75.6%, and 45.7%, respectively, by using idleness as a reuse proxy, but this still leaves a substantial fraction of misordered evictions. MORI accounts for observed idleness, but variable tool and sub-agent delays can decouple this signal from the remaining time to KV reuse. This residual problem remains difficult to resolve through precise prediction alone. As §2.2 shows, decoding, tools, sub-agents, queueing, and scheduling shape reuse intervals 

> 4

online, causing wide variation across consecutive rounds. Even for live KV, exact next-use times remain uncertain. Prediction-based policies may help, but cannot replace life-cycle semantics for determining liveness or reliably eliminate ordering errors under this uncertainty. 

2.5 Related Work 

Based on these observations, efficient agent KV management requires three capabilities: tracking harness-side message lifecycles, propagating lifecycle information across layers for KV retention and reclamation, and ordering live KV under uncertain reuse intervals. Existing work addresses parts of this space, but not this harness-to-cache lifecycle full path. 

Semantic-blind KV substrates. PagedAttention [15], RadixAttention [39], LMCache [7], MoonCake [28], and CachedAttention [10] provide the physical backbone of KV cache management through paging, prefix indexing, and tiered KV storage. However, besides the physical token streams, shared prefixes, and page accesses, they are totally blind to the logical message operations that determine KV cache reuse in ReAct contexts. Therefore, they only count on conventional recency policies such LRU for eviction ordering, underlying the two failures in §2.4. Semantic-aware serving improves scheduling and execu-tion coordination [14, 17, 18, 31], motivating similar support for agent KV management. Existing systems expose TTLs and KV retention ranges [3, 13, 21, 25], while Pie [12] exposes fine-grained programmable inference operations. However, these controls lack a common semantic contract mapping message operations to KV lifecycle updates. Applications still translate replacement, removal, fork inheritance, and one-off execution into backend-specific hints or operations; phys-ical interfaces additionally expose token/page boundaries, prefix dependencies, and shared-KV complexities. Lifecycle translation thus remains application-specific. 

Workflow-based KV Management. TokenCake [5], PBKV [38], and KVFlow [27] use predefined workflow stages and dependencies to anticipate reuse and guide KV retention and placement in agentic workflows [11, 22, 29], such as deep research. However, these methods cannot be di-rectly applied to ReAct agents, whose tool calls and subagent branches emerge incrementally from LLM decisions and tool results. Execution paths cannot be exhaustively enumerated in advance, and future topology remains unknown at cache decision time. The ReAct loop structure therefore cannot reveal which contexts will be revisited or their reuse order. 

Prediction-based KV policies. Continuum [16], Cache-Wise [32], and MORI [33] use tool-call timing to estimate KV reuse under dynamic ReAct execution. Continuum and CacheWise derive per-entry TTLs from historical tool-call in-terval distributions, while MORI infers reuse priorities from the fraction of recent execution time spent in tool calls. These Semantic events Semantic Primitive Model Main Agent Compact Agent                  

> Append Truncate Delete Spawn Pin
> Event-Driven Lifecycle Manager KV Cache Eviction Engine State-prioritized KV Cache Management
> One-off
> ctx2-sys ctx2-comp. ctx2-main
> Spawn …
> Discarded ctx2-main: Active ctx2-main Pin ctx2-sys: …
> State Transition Diagram
> KV Page Storage 341205Proactive Delete Reject Storage
> 36…
> x
> Pin Primitives Ctx Messages KV Pages One-off ctx2-comp.: …25
> Semantic Event Tracing
> LLM Engine Insert
> LLM Token Lifecycle State
> Agent Harness Context Management Operations

Figure 7. The design overview of KVTether. approaches have two limitations. First, without lifecycle dis-tinctions, dead KV can occupy capacity and displace live KV, undermining eviction effectiveness. Second, runtime-dependent execution and changing deployment conditions make reuse intervals unstable, weakening prediction reliabil-ity across workloads and propagating per-entry uncertainty into eviction decisions. 

## 3 Challenges and Design Overview 

The analysis in §2 shows that the semantic gap in ReAct agents cannot be closed by downstream inference alone: lifecycle semantics should be exported from the harness at runtime. Making this practical, however, still involves three concrete challenges. KVTether follows the architectural lifecycle-export idea and overcomes the challenges through three corresponding designs, summarized in Figure 7. 

C1: Diverse agent harnesses. Agent harnesses realize context evolution through different context-management patterns, making ad hoc hooks brittle and hard to generalize. Rather than tie lifecycle export to harness-specific functions, KVTether targets the more stable substrate that these har-nesses share: message-level context operations. It therefore provides a semantic primitive model that exports lifecycle se-mantics through a small set of primitives for message edits, context creation, and lifetime declaration. This gives hetero-geneous harnesses a common runtime interface for lifecycle export while preserving their existing agent logic. 

C2: Cross-layer complexity. Lifecycle semantics are gen-erated by message-level context management, while action-able application requires resolving physical details beyond harness-level concerns, including how messages materialize into tokens and KV, how edits invalidate KV suffixes due to prefix dependency, and how multiple contexts deal with con-flict message spans on shared prefixes. KVTether addresses this challenge with an event-driven lifecycle manager that translates message-level events into KV-level lifecycle states. This manager encapsulates tokenization, prefix structure, 

> 5

and sharing details, so the serving stack can apply lifecycle-aware KV control precisely without pushing physical cache-management complexity back to agent harnesses. 

C3: Uncertain reuse intervals. Even after lifecycle se-mantics identify dead KV, capacity pressure remains among live-but-idle KV whose reuse intervals vary with tools, sub-agents, and runtime delays. KVTether’s state-guided KV cache engine therefore takes a state-prioritized approach. It first bypasses or proactively reclaims dead KV, confining uncer-tainty to the live-but-idle tier. KVTether then orders and evicts KV within this tier using observed overall reuse trends, avoiding depending on precise per-item prediction. Figure 7 also illustrates the end-to-end workflow. As the harness updates a context, it emits lifecycle events through the primitive interface. The lifecycle manager resolves each event to the affected token/KV scope and updates the corre-sponding KV lifecycle state. Guided by that state, the cache engine turns lifecycle state into cache actions such as bypass, reclamation, and eviction. 

## 4 Semantic Primitive Model 

In this section, we introduce the semantic programming model in KVTether, which exposes context-management intent through message-level primitives. Developers declare context updates and message lifetimes through interfaces compatible with their existing harnesses. These operations generate semantic events for the lifecycle manager (§5). 

4.1 Message-Level Primitives 

To identify context lifecycle transitions, an intuitive approach is to classify subagents by function (e.g. memory compaction or tool safety guardian) and map function invocations to the corresponding transitions. However, it is challenging to formulate function-based lifecycle rules that generalize across agent harnesses. We investigate four agent harnesses (Table 2) implemented in different programming languages. These agents support diverse functions, and even the same function can have different context requirements across har-nesses. For example, Codex’s safety guardian function [24] retains interaction history, including prior tool commands, across reviews, whereas Hermes [20] assesses the current command without prior history, and SWE-agent [30] and Agent-G invoke no LLM. Despite these differences, we find that all four harnesses rely on context-management logic that maintains messages and assembles LLM inputs. We refer to this abstraction as the context manager. Table 2 shows that all four harnesses store interaction histories as ordered message sequences, pro-viding an opportunity to track context lifecycle transitions at message granularity. Tracking message updates captures context changes, while explicit lifetime declarations capture retention intent. 

Table 2. The Data structure of context managements in agent harnesses.           

> Agent Language Message sequence
> Codex CLI [24] Rust Vec<ResponseItemEnvelope>
> SWE-agent [30] Python list[HistoryItem]
> Hermes [20] Python List[{role: ..., content: ...}]
> Agent-G Go []*types.ChatMessage

Table 3. Primitives in KVTether’s library for managing agent contexts and declaring message lifetimes.           

> Category Primitive Description
> Message edits
> append Record message appends.
> replace Record in-place message replacement.
> remove Record message removals. Context creation
> fork Register a child sharing a parent prefix.
> spawn Register an independent child context. Lifetime declarations
> one_off Mark a context for one inference.
> pin Declare long-term message retention.
> unpin Release retention protection.

Based on this observation, KVTether exposes eight prim-itives that record context updates and retention intent for message-level lifecycle tracking as shown in Table 3. Mes-sage edits ( append , replace , and remove ) identify the af-fected context and message range; context creation ( fork 

and spawn ) records whether a child inherits a parent prefix. Lifetime declarations ( one_off and pin ) distinguish ordi-nary reuse from single-use and explicitly retained messages; 

unpin releases this protection. 

Expressiveness of the Primitive Set. These primitives capture both the spatial evolution of contexts and the tem-poral requirements for message retention. Spatially, changes to a message list reduce to adding, modifying, or removing messages; combining these edits also handles changes in order. Temporally, a new context either starts independently or inherits existing messages, which can have different life-times in different contexts. Messages may be used for one inference, reused across rounds, or explicitly retained, while runtime events mark when their use pauses, resumes, or ends (§5). These cases cover the context changes and retention requirements in our model, so more complex functions can be expressed by combining the existing primitives. 

4.2 Integration and Composition 

Figure 8 combines a Python adapter that subclasses an ex-isting ContextManager with a context compaction exam-ple. The adapter preserves the harness’s message updates and prompt construction, reports operations through the SDK, and pins System messages during initialization. The agent harness continues to use the manager without han-dling the context’s tokens or KV pages. Compaction derives a temporary context, declares it one-off before inference, and replaces the selected history with the resulting summary.                                           

> 61import kvtether
> 2from agent_harness import ContextManager
> 34class KVTetherContextManager(ContextManager):
> 5def __init__(self, messages):
> 6super ().__init__(messages=messages)
> 7kvtether.pin(messages)
> 89def append(self, message):
> 10 result = super ().append(message)
> 11 kvtether.append(self, message)
> 12 return result
> 13 14 def replace(self, start, end, message):
> 15 result = super ().replace(start, end, message)
> 16 kvtether.replace(self, start, end, message)
> 17 return result
> 18 19 def fork(self, end):
> 20 child = super ().fork(end) # Same type; no init.
> 21 kvtether.fork(self, child, end)
> 22 return child
> 23 24 context = KVTetherContextManager([system_message])
> 25 context.append(user_message)
> 26 ... # Agent execution accumulates history.
> 27 compaction = context.fork(end)
> 28 kvtether.one_off(compaction)
> 29 compaction.append(summary_instruction)
> 30 context.replace(start, end, run_llm(compaction))

Figure 8. Simplified SDK integration and context com-paction. System messages remain outside the replaced range, and subsequent rounds reuse the summary. Such sequences can be encapsulated in higher-level methods while preserving the same semantic events. Each derived context has an independent message con-tainer. Its termination ends only its own unpinned references; other contexts may still require the shared prefix. Similarly, replacing a message range preserves the order of unaffected messages and changes only the issuing context. The lifecycle manager reconciles these logical events with shared physical KV ownership. 

## 5 Event-Driven Lifecycle Management 

The primitive model helps expose context evolution as harness-side semantic events, but these events still do not directly specify how physical KV should be managed. The lifecycle manager closes this gap by interpreting them against the physical organization of KV, including message-to-KV map-ping, prefix-sensitive validity, and cross-context sharing. It therefore proceeds in two steps: §5.1 resolves the affected KV scope, and §5.2 defines the resulting lifecycle states. 

5.1 KV Scope Resolution 

KVTether resolves semantic events with context as the pri-mary management unit. For each independently evolving context, the lifecycle manager maintains the mapping from its messages to the materialized token and KV ranges they currently cover. Context-scoped events update an entire con-text scope directly, while message-scoped events require translation. Discarded Pinned Active Suspended Expired Temporary One-off( 𝒄𝒕𝒙𝒊)     

> Pin( 𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋 )Pin( 𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋 )unPin( 𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋 )
> 𝒄𝒕𝒙𝒊 is terminated
> 𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋  …Remove( 𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋)  Active fork
> 𝒄𝒕𝒙𝒊 𝒄𝒕𝒙𝒌
> Lifecycle transitions for 𝒄𝒕𝒙𝒌
> Append( 𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋)
> …𝒎𝒔𝒈𝒊,𝒋

Figure 9. Message lifecycle state transitions within and across contexts in KVTether. This translation in KVTether follows the same prompt construction path in LLM engines. Message lists are first formatted into the actual prompt string and then tokenized into the token sequence indexing KV cache. Most events then translate by position, but remove and replace on mes-sages are constrained by prefix-dependent validity , where changing a message in the middle of a context invalidates the cached suffix due to the KV cache computing logic in LLM inference, even when later messages are unchanged. KVTether therefore translates them into suffix invalidation, and the affected KV ranges enter the Expired state (§5.2). Physical translation is further gated by KV existence : only messages that have already participated in inference have ma-terialized token spans and KV ranges to manage. KVTether therefore applies token/KV updates only at inference bound-aries. Between inferences, it processes each context’s events serially in program order, updating message states and record-ing the events against the latest materialized mapping; the next inference emits the minimal invalidation and update actions required by the new prefix structure. 

5.2 Lifecycle State Management 

To preserve independent retention demands, KVTether main-tains a lifecycle state for each message version in each con-text. Figure 9 shows transitions driven by primitive opera-tions and runtime events. We denote the 𝑗 -th message in context 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 by 𝑚𝑠𝑔 𝑖,𝑗 ; its version changes when its content or preceding token prefix changes. Four categories capture these demands. Pinned messages receive explicit long-term or temporary protection. Ordinary messages are Active when newly appended or participating in LLM requests, and Sus-pended once LLM decoding starts. Discarded groups Expired 

messages whose lifetimes have ended and Temporary mes-sages declared for one inference. Temporary messages are tracked logically; their exclusive KV bypasses reuse storage. 

Runtime transitions. When a context 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 is spawned or forked, KVTether begins monitoring its execution and updating message lifecycle states. As messages are appended to 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 , KVTether marks each ordinary message 𝑚𝑠𝑔 𝑖,𝑗 Ac-tive. When an LLM request for 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 completes LLM prefilling, 

> 7

KVTether moves all Active messages in that context to Sus-pended; before the next request, it reactivates participating ordinary messages. When 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 terminates, its ordinary mes-sages become Expired, while Pinned messages retain their declared protection. Releasing protection ( unPin ) returns a valid message to Suspended between calls, or to Expired if its context has terminated. During execution, KVTether handles three further types of context changes. (1) When 𝑚𝑠𝑔 𝑖,𝑗 is removed or replaced, its old version becomes Expired, along with old versions of subsequent messages whose token prefixes change. Their KV is no longer reusable by 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 . KVTether tracks the re-placement and affected suffix as new versions for subsequent LLM requests. (2) When 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 forks a child 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑘 , KVTether maintains separate states for inherited messages 𝑚𝑠𝑔 𝑘,𝑗 and their parent counterparts. Parent and child states evolve inde-pendently: execution and content changes in either context affect only its own message states. (3) When 𝑐𝑡𝑥 𝑖 is declared 

one_off before inference, KVTether marks its existing and subsequently appended messages Temporary. 

## 6 State-Guided KV Cache Engine 

The lifecycle manager resolves message-level semantics into KV lifecycle states; the cache engine uses these states to make cache decisions under uncertain reuse. Treating this problem monolithically is counterproductive: if all KV is handled uniformly, semantically determined cases can interfere with the decisions that should be reserved for genuinely uncertain reuse. KVTether therefore adopts a state-prioritized design that narrows the problem in two steps. It first filters out determined cases (§6.1), and then focuses optimization on the residual core uncertainty among live-but-idle KV (§6.2). 

6.1 Separating Determined and Uncertain Reuse 

KVTether begins by narrowing the uncertain-reuse problem with a state-prioritized policy. The key idea is that lifecycle state determines the default order of cache actions during KV admission, not merely the eviction order among live entries. When a new KV range arrives, the cache engine consults its lifecycle state together with the states of resident KV, and applies the decision order in Algorithm 1. This order first removes semantically determined cases from contention, and only then lets the remaining live KV compete for capacity. Algorithm 1 makes the narrowing effect explicit. Tempo-rary KV is bypassed at admission, Expired KV is reclaimed before any live eviction begins, and ordinary idle KV in the suspended state yields capacity before stronger live states do. This order prevents semantically determined cases from distorting eviction decisions for genuinely uncertain reuse. In particular, it reduces the chance of wrong-direction evic-tions by preventing dead KV and higher-priority live KV from distorting competition within the uncertain idle tier.                                                                         

> Algorithm 1 State-prioritized KV admission
> Require: incoming KV 𝑟 , resident cache C, free capacity 𝐹
> 1: procedure FreeByState( C, 𝑠, Δ)2: while Δ>0and ∃resident KV in Cwith state 𝑠 do
> 3: release one resident KV range with state 𝑠
> 4: update Δ
> 5: end while
> 6: end procedure
> 7: if 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑒 (𝑟 )=Temporary then
> 8: return // bypass Temporary KV
> 9: end if
> 10: Δ←𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 (𝑟 ) − 𝐹
> 11: FreeByState( C,Expired ,Δ)// reclaim Expired KV
> 12: FreeByState( C,Suspended ,Δ)// evict Suspended KV
> 13: FreeByState( C,Active ,Δ)// fallback to Active KV
> 14: if 𝑠𝑡𝑎𝑡𝑒 (𝑟 )=Pinned then
> 15: FreeByState( C,Pinned ,Δ)// compete with Pinned KV
> 16: end if
> 17: if Δ≤0then
> 18: admit 𝑟 into reusable storage 19: end if

Managing Shared KV. KVTether tracks the states of all message versions mapped to each token’s KV across con-texts (§5.2). Using the priorities in Algorithm 1, it assigns the KV the highest-priority mapped state for eviction deci-sions and updates this aggregate whenever a mapped version changes state. For example, if a parent removes a message but its forked child still holds a Suspended reference, their shared KV remains Suspended. The KV becomes Discarded only when all mapped versions are Discarded, and can be reclaimed once any in-flight use completes. After this filtering step, the core uncertainty is concen-trated in the suspended tier. Section 6.2 futher discusses how KVTether orders this residual uncertainty. 

6.2 Ordering Suspended-KV Under Pressure 

After the state-prioritized filtering, the remaining uncer-tainty lies in the suspended tier: KV that is still live but currently idle. The key question is therefore how to order evictions within this tier under cache pressure. The widely adopted policy is LRU [7, 15, 28, 39], which assumes that the most recently accessed entry is also the one closest to reuse. However, this assumption is systematically misaligned with suspended KV in ReAct agents, where newly suspended KV is often unlikely to be reused immediately but waits during the execution of tools, sub-agents, or other physical stages. Figure 10 shows this pattern. The bars show the distribu-tion of reuse interval since writeback, and the curve shows the conditional probability that a suspended entry will be reused within the next second given that it has remained unused up to that age. Across all three workloads, reuses are not concentrated at the youngest ages. Instead, they cluster several seconds later: in Agent-G, 43.1% of observed returns fall within 1–3 s after writeback; in Codex, 46.6% fall within 3–6 s; and in Agent-X, 87.5% fall within 2–4 s.              

> 802420 010 20 30 40 43.1% reuse in 1–3 s
> Agent-G
> 03715 010 20 30 46.6% reuse in 3–6 s
> Codex
> 0259020 40 60 80 87.5% reuse in 2–4 s
> Agent-X
> Probability / share (%) Time since writeback (s)
> Conditional return Sample share

Figure 10. Observed suspended KV reuse behavior of the three traces under a deployment with PD-disaggregation, where KV writeback happens after LLM prefill. This reversed direction determines the poor behavior of LRU under high pressure. As older suspended KV are dis-placed earlier than newly suspended KV, LRU tends to spend scarce residency on entries whose waiting value has not yet matured, while evicting entries that are closer to actual reuse. This effect is visible in our evaluation at the highest load points: on Agent-X, for example, LMCache’s hit ratio under LRU falls to 10.2%, compared with 49.5% for KVTether (§8). Therefore, effective cache management for ReAct agents under high pressure should preserve KV long enough for its reuse value to be realized. Based on this principle, KVTether follows this principle and adopts MRU (most-recently-used) as a heuristic realization: under cache pressure, it evicts the most recently suspended KV first, favoring entries that have waited longer and are more likely to be reused. Note that the advantage of this design lies in the stable directional trend in suspended-KV reuse induced by ReAct execution, rather than precise per-entry next-use predic-tion [16, 32, 33]. Additional queueing may lengthen reuse intervals across deployments, but the trend remains action-able as long as the relative order of cache events is preserved (e.g., by a first-in-first-out policy). MRU thus sustains reuse across workloads and cache pressures (§8). 

## 7 Implementation of KVTether 

KVTether comprises three components. First, a lightweight in-harness framework exposes the eight primitives. It records primitive invocations synchronously to preserve the order of context mutations, and exports them asynchronously to the server-side runtime in the same order, keeping lifecycle export off the critical path without changing event order. Second, the lifecycle manager is a server-side Python run-time that sits between the harness and the lower serving stack. It ingests lifecycle events, reproduces the LLM en-gine’s prompt-formatting and tokenization pipeline for inde-pendent message-to-KV translation, and interposes on LLM calls to coordinate cache actions. Before forwarding each call, it passes the call ID and context ID to the cache engine, enabling subsequent admission and bypass decisions over the correct context-owned KV ranges. Third, KVTether’s state-guided policy runs on a multi-tier cache engine spanning GPU HBM, host memory, and remote 

Table 4. Experimental setup.      

> Specification Hardware 3 nodes, each with 2 Nvidia Grace CPUs @ 3.38GHz 4 Nvidia GB200 GPUs, 4 ×200Gb/s RDMA RoCE
> Software Ubuntu 24.04, CUDA 12.9, cuDNN 9.10.2, NCCL 2.27.5 SGLang 0.5.8, LMCache 0.5.5, MoonCake 0.3.8
> Model GLM-4.7 (358B) with PD disaggregation (1 prefill + 2 decode instances, TP=4)
> Cache 400 GB KV cache pool per node KV transfer through MoonCake transfer engine
> Dataset Production trajectories of Agent-X and Agent-G Codex

memory. We separate global lifecycle control, which decides whether a page remains in reusable KV space, from per-tier caching, which decides whether a tier retains a fast copy. We provide a native engine using CUDA for local GPU-CPU movement and MoonCake for cross-node transfers, plus a compatibility path that proxies KVTether’s control logic onto existing backends such as LMCache and MoonCake Store. 

## 8 Evaluation 

In this section, we first compare KVTether’s end-to-end per-formance with the baselines. We then conduct ablations of lifecycle tracking and recency optimization and assess the integration effort of its primitive interface across six agent harnesses. Finally, we measure runtime overhead. 

8.1 Experimental Setup Hardware and software. We use the three-node cluster in Table 4, with 12 NVIDIA GB200 GPUs, six Grace CPUs, and RDMA RoCE networking. Each node allocates 400 GB of host memory to the KV pool (1.2 TB total). SGLang [39] serves GLM-4.7 [36] using prefill–decode disaggregation [40], with one prefill and two decode instances, each using tensor par-allelism of four. MoonCake [28] provides cross-node KV transfers. All methods use the same model deployment and per-tier KV capacity. 

Workloads. We replay the three workloads in §2.2. For 

Codex , we collect trajectories by running the Codex agent harness [24] on TerminalBench [19] tasks, with all LLM re-quests served by DeepSeek-V4-Pro [9]. For Agent-X and 

Agent-G , we use execution traces from two internal cod-ing agents deployed by a large cloud provider. Each trace contains 400 tasks. For controlled comparisons of cache policies, we replay each task through LLM inference on the real cluster, using random prompts with recorded per-round input token counts and enforcing recorded output counts. We adjust prompt con-tent across rounds to exactly match each request’s potentially reusable prefix length in the trace. We simulate tool calls by waiting for their recorded durations, eliminating variability in tool execution time across experiments. Across all three workloads, we replay lifecycle events at their original execution points and in order relative to LLM                                                   

> 90.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 025 50 75 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%)
> Agent-X
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0150 300 450 Prefill Duration (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0200 400 600 End-to-End Latency (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 Price (USD/Request)
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 020 40 60 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%)
> Agent-G
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 060 120 180 Prefill Duration (s)
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 0150 300 End-to-End Latency (s)
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 0123Price (USD/Request)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 020 40 60 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%)
> Codex
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0150 300 450 Prefill Duration (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0250 500 750 End-to-End Latency (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0246Price (USD/Request)
> LMCache MORI KVTether

Figure 11. KV cache hit ratio (first column), cumulative prefill time (second column), end-to-end latency (third column), and average task pricing (fourth column) of KVTether, LMCache, and MORI with Agent-X, Agent-G, and Codex. calls. This preserves message boundaries, prefix sharing, fork inheritance, and suffix invalidation from message re-placement or removal. For Codex , we integrate KVTether’s programming model into the harness to record events online during trace collection. For externally collected Agent-X and 

Agent-G traces, we reconstruct events offline from logged message updates, context relationships, and termination records, using only information available at that execution point. We evaluate each trace at five RPS settings with Pois-son arrivals, following prior serving evaluations [15, 35, 40]. Task samples and arrival sequences are identical across meth-ods. 

Baselines. We compare KVTether with two baselines. LM-Cache (LMC) [7] uses LRU eviction based on page-access recency. MORI [33] ranks agent programs by idleness, the fraction of recent execution time spent in tool calls, includ-ing elapsed time in an ongoing call. It favors busy programs for GPU residency while offloading and evicting more idle programs, with admission control at both tiers. 

Metrics. We report four metrics. (1) KV cache utiliza-tion is the total number of cache-hit input tokens divided by the total number of input tokens across all rounds. (2) Cumulative prefill time measures the total prefill execu-tion time across all rounds. (3) End-to-end latency mea-sures the elapsed time from the start of task execution to its completion. (4) Average task pricing is estimated us-ing DeepSeek-V4-Pro’s peak rates of $0.044, $1.32, and $3.96 per million cache-hit input, cache-miss input, and output tokens, respectively [9]. We aggregate token charges across rounds and average over tasks, applying the same rates to all methods. 

8.2 End-to-End Performance 

Figure 11 compares KVTether with LMCache and MORI on Agent-X, Agent-G, and Codex at five RPS settings per trace. We report average and maximum improvements across all 15 settings. 

KV cache hit ratio. KVTether achieves average absolute hit-ratio gains of 33.3% and 24.5% over LMCache and MORI, respectively, reaching up to 47.8% and 36.4%. The gap is smaller in some low-load settings. For example, at the low-est rate on Agent-X, LMCache and MORI retain useful KV, achieving 60.0% and 58.1% hit ratios, compared with KVTether’s 71.9%. At the highest rate, their hit ratios fall to 10.2% and 35.7%, while KVTether retains 49.5%. KVTether therefore degrades more gradually under contention and maintains higher reuse across the evaluated load range. 

Prefill time and end-to-end latency. By retaining more reusable KV under contention, KVTether avoids repeated prefix computation. KVTether reduces prefill time by 29.2% and 23.3% on average relative to LMCache and MORI, respec-tively, and by up to 41.2% and 33.2%. These savings reduce end-to-end latency by 16.5% and 12.4% on average relative to LMCache and MORI, respectively, and by up to 26.3% and 17.4%. The latency gains are smaller than the prefill reduc-tions because decoding remains necessary. 

Average task pricing. KVTether lowers estimated task pricing by 40.0% and 33.2% on average relative to LMCache and MORI, respectively, and by up to 53.6% and 44.1%. As the baselines lose reuse under load, more input tokens incur the higher cache-miss price. KVTether limits this cost increase by retaining more cache hits, while output charges remain                                                   

> 10 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 025 50 75 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%)
> Agent-X
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0150 300 450 Prefill Duration (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0200 400 600 End-to-End Latency (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 Price (USD/Request)
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 020 40 60 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%)
> Agent-G
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 060 120 180 Prefill Duration (s)
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 0150 300 End-to-End Latency (s)
> 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10
> RPS
> 0123Price (USD/Request)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 020 40 60 KV Cache Hit Ratio (%)
> Codex
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0150 300 450 Prefill Duration (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0250 500 750 End-to-End Latency (s)
> 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
> RPS
> 0.0 1.5 3.0 4.5 Price (USD/Request)
> KVTether w/o RO KVTether w/o LT KVTether

Figure 12. KV cache hit ratio (first column), cumulative prefill time (second column), end-to-end latency (third column), and average task pricing (fourth column) of KVTether, KVTether w/o LT, and KVTether w/o RO with Agent-X, Agent-G, and Codex. fixed by replay. Its reuse advantage thus translates into cost savings across load levels. 

8.3 Ablation Study 

We compare KVTether with two variants to isolate the con-tributions of lifecycle tracking and recency optimization. 

KVTether w/o LT disables lifecycle tracking and state-guided cache management while retaining MRU. KVTether w/o RO 

retains lifecycle tracking and state priorities but replaces MRU with LRU within the Suspended tier. Figure 12 reports their performance using the same workloads, RPS settings, and cache budgets as in Section 8.2. 

8.3.1 Lifecycle Tracking. Compared with KVTether w/o LT, KVTether achieves an average absolute hit-ratio gain of 25.6% across the 15 settings, reaching up to 43.4%. It reduces prefill time, end-to-end latency, and average task pricing by 23.2%, 13.1%, and 33.1% on average, with maximum reduc-tions of 43.1%, 26.6%, and 53.2%, respectively. MRU alone can even underperform LMCache with LRU eviction. For exam-ple, at the lowest RPS on Codex, KVTether w/o LT achieves a 20.8% hit ratio, compared with 36.1% for LMCache. Figure 13 compares zombie-page occupancy under KVTether and KVTether w/o LT over one-hour windows from work-load replay. Under KVTether w/o LT, zombie pages occupy an average of 22.1%, 21.4%, and 38.5% of resident KV on Codex, Agent-X, and Agent-G, respectively. KVTether ex-hibits only minor zombie occupancy on Codex, averaging below 2.5% of resident KV, and no zombie pages on the other workloads. Without lifecycle information, MRU can retain older zombie pages while evicting newly arrived reusable 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 030 60 Zombie pages (%) Agent-X 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 030 60 Codex 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 030 60 Agent-G KVTether KVTether w/o LT 

Figure 13. Zombie-page occupancy under KVTether and KVTether w/o LT. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 050 100 Wrong-direction eviction (%)  Agent-X 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 050 100 Codex 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Time (minutes) 050 100 Agent-G KVTether w/o RO KVTether 

Figure 14. Wrong-direction eviction ratios under KVTether and KVTether w/o RO. KV. Changing eviction order alone therefore leaves capacity occupied by KV with no future reuse. 

8.3.2 Recency Optimization. Compared with KVTether w/o RO, KVTether achieves an average absolute hit-ratio gain of 29.1%, reaching up to 47.0%. It reduces prefill time, end-to-end latency, and average task pricing by 26.1%, 14.8%, and 35.4% on average, with maximum reductions of 39.8%, 25.3%, and 52.2%, respectively. Although KVTether w/o RO reclaims obsolete KV, its LRU policy can still evict live KV that is closer to reuse. 

> 11

Table 5. Code required to integrate KVTether into six agent harnesses. “—” indicates that the harness does not provide the corresponding function. 

Component CDX SWE OC HM AG OCL Context manager 157 14 45 108 82 162 

Semantic functions 

Context append 8 7 6 15 9 2Compaction 3 5 2 2 4 10 Derivation / fork 4 — 2 2 6 11 Safety guardian 4 — 3 5 — 11 Deadlock detection — — — — 10 10 Long-term memory 10 — — 2 6 10 

Function subtotal 29 12 13 26 35 54 

Total 186 26 58 134 117 216 

Figure 14 compares wrong-direction eviction ratios un-der KVTether and KVTether w/o RO over one-hour win-dows from workload replay. Under KVTether w/o RO, wrong-direction evictions account for 65.6%, 75.0%, and 92.3% of evictions on Agent-X, Agent-G, and Codex, respectively. LRU protects newly suspended KV that may still be waiting for tools or subagents, while evicting older KV closer to reuse. In contrast, KVTether reduces these ratios to 38.7%, 25.7%, and 38.6%, respectively. After lifecycle filtering, MRU evicts newly suspended KV first, reducing the risk of displacing older live KV that may be reused earlier. 

8.4 Harness Integration 

This section evaluates KVTether’s usability by measuring the code changes required for harness integration. We first evalu-ate this effort across six agent harnesses, then use Codex as a case study to examine two representative semantic functions, safety guardian and subagent call. 

Integration effort. Table 5 reports integration code for Codex (CDX) [24], SWE-agent (SWE) [30], OpenCode (OC) [1], Hermes (HM) [20], Agent-G (AG), and OpenClaw (OCL) [26]. The counts separate reusable context-manager code from hooks and helpers for individual semantic functions . The manager encapsulates message operations and SDK calls; functions invoke it to report context changes and retention intent. Across the six harnesses, the manager requires 14–162 lines and function integration adds 12–54 lines, for 26–216 lines in total per harness. 

Codex case study. Figure 15 shows a simplified Codex integration. Both functions reuse the wrapper in (a), which extends the native ContextManager with 11 added lines to expose KVTether’s lifecycle primitives. 

Safety guardian. The safety guardian reviews proposed tool calls. Its ephemeral review path invokes the manager’s one-off annotation through a Session helper before inference (Figure 15(b)). This marks the review messages as temporary, allowing their exclusive KV to bypass reuse storage. The function-specific integration adds 4 lines in the example. 

(a) Context-manager changes                         

> 1+ use kvtether_client::KVTetherClient; // Rust SDK
> 2- let history = ContextManager::new();
> 3+ let history = KVTetherContextManager::wrap(
> 4+ContextManager::new(), KVTetherClient::local());
> 5impl KVTetherContextManager {
> 6// KVTether Rust SDK client stored as self.sdk.
> 7+fn mark_current_one_off(&self) {
> 8+for msg in self.messages() {
> 9+self.sdk.mark_one_off(&self.context_id, msg);
> 10 +}
> 11 +}
> 12 +fn mark_fork_from(&self, parent_id) {
> 13 +self.sdk.fork_context(parent_id, &self.context_id);
> 14 +}
> 15 }

(b) Safety guardian (ephemeral review)             

> 1async fn run_ephemeral_review(...) {
> 2let review = ...; // Create session; prepare input.
> 3+review.set_kvtether_one_off();
> 4let result = run_review_on_session(&review, ...).await;
> 5review.shutdown_in_background();
> 6result
> 7}
> 8+ fn set_kvtether_one_off(&self) { // Session method
> 9+self.history.mark_current_one_off();
> 10 + }

(c) Subagent call (fork path)             

> 1// spawn_agent_internal calls this, then send_input.
> 2async fn spawn_forked_thread(parent, ...) {
> 3let history = ...; // Snapshot parent history.
> 4let child = fork_thread_with_source(history, ...).await;
> 5+child.mark_kvtether_fork_from(parent);
> 6child
> 7}
> 8+ fn mark_kvtether_fork_from(&self, parent) { // Session
> 9+self.history.mark_fork_from(parent.history.context_id());
> 10 + }

Figure 15. Integrating KVTether into Codex through context-manager extensions for safety guardian and sub-agent calls. Green + and red - indicate added and replaced code. 

Subagent call. A forked subagent inherits its parent’s his-tory and executes independently. After child creation, a Ses-sion helper registers the parent–child relationship through the manager before task submission (Figure 15(c)). This al-lows KVTether to track both contexts’ lifetimes indepen-dently while preserving shared KV needed by either context. The fork path likewise adds 4 lines in the example. 

8.5 Runtime Overhead Primitive recording overhead. KVTether’s in-harness framework records primitive invocations synchronously and exports events asynchronously, adding less than 100 𝜇 s per invocation. LLM-call interposition overhead. Before for-warding each LLM call, the lifecycle manager notifies the cache engine of the call ID and context, adding less than 50 ms. KV-scope resolution overhead. For every LLM call, the lifecycle manager replicates the inference engine’s prompt formatting and tokenization to map messages to KV ranges. This mapping takes about 350 ms for a 256K-token input. For inputs of this size, LLM calls within ReAct rounds in our evaluation take 19.96 s on average. The combined overhead is estimated at 2.0% of this duration. Resource overhead. The lifecycle runtime and cache engine’s control 

> 12

path each run in a Python process with one CPU core and less than 2 GB of host memory across our experiments. To conclude, KVTether’s runtime and resource overheads are negligible relative to LLM call execution time and the serving stack’s resource footprint, respectively. 

## 9 Conclusion 

We presented KVTether, a lifecycle-aware KV cache manage-ment system for ReAct agents that bridges the semantic gap between message-level context management and physical KV storage. KVTether exposes lifecycle semantics through message-level primitives and translates them into KV states through an event-driven manager that aggregates retention demands across contexts. Guided by these states, its cache engine bypasses or reclaims Discarded KV and applies MRU within the live-idle tier, addressing both obsolete cache resi-dency and premature eviction under uncertain reuse inter-vals. Evaluation shows that KVTether lowers estimated task pricing by 40.0% and 33.2% on average and end-to-end re-quest latency by up to 26.3% and 17.4% relative to LMCache and MORI, respectively. Integration into six agent harnesses requires at most 216 lines of code per harness. 

## References 

[1] Anomaly. 2026. OpenCode Source Code. https://github.com/ anomalyco/opencode . Accessed: 2026-09-17. [2] Anthropic. 2025. Claude Code: An Agentic Coding Tool by Anthropic. arXiv:2506.13772 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2506.13772 

[3] Anthropic. 2026. Prompt Caching. https://docs.anthropic.com/en/ docs/build-with-claude/prompt-caching . Accessed: 2026-09-14. [4] L. A. Belady. 1966. A Study of Replacement Algorithms for a Virtual-Storage Computer. IBM Systems Journal 5, 2 (1966), 78–101. doi: 10. 1147/sj.52.0078 

[5] Zhuohang Bian, Feiyang Wu, Zhuoran Li, Teng Ma, and Youwei Zhuo. 2026. TokenCake: A KV-Cache-centric Serving Framework for LLM-based Multi-Agent Applications. arXiv:2510.18586 doi: 10.48550/arXiv. 2510.18586 

[6] Chaokun Chang, Yukun Zhou, Kaihua Fu, Dakai An, Tianyu Feng, Hanfeng Lu, Sheng Yao, Pu Guo, Yinghao Yu, Yizhou Shan, et al. 2026. From LLM Inference to Agentic Workloads: Characterization and Implications for Serving Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2608.15127 

(2026). [7] Yihua Cheng, Yuhan Liu, Jiayi Yao, Yuwei An, Xiaokun Chen, Shaoting Feng, Yuyang Huang, Samuel Shen, Kuntai Du, and Junchen Jiang. 2025. LMCache: An Efficient KV Cache Layer for Enterprise-Scale LLM Inference. arXiv:2510.09665 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2510.09665 

[8] Esha Choukse, Pratyush Patel, Chaojie Zhang, Aashaka Shah, Íñigo Goiri, Saeed Maleki, Rodrigo Fonseca, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2025. Splitwise: Efficient generative llm inference using phase splitting. IEEE Micro 45, 4 (2025), 54–59. [9] DeepSeek. 2026. Models & Pricing. https://api-docs.deepseek.com/ quick_start/pricing . Accessed: 2026-09-22. [10] Bin Gao, Zhuomin He, Puru Sharma, Qingxuan Kang, Djordje Jevdjic, Junbo Deng, Xingkun Yang, Zhou Yu, and Pengfei Zuo. 2024. Cost-Efficient Large Language Model Serving for Multi-turn Conversations with CachedAttention. In 2024 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 24) . USENIX Association, Santa Clara, CA, 111–126. 

https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc24/presentation/gao-bin-cost 

[11] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun, Meng Wang, and Haofen Wang. 2024. Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Large Language Models: A Sur-vey. arXiv:2312.10997 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.10997 

[12] In Gim, Zhiyao Ma, Seung seob Lee, and Lin Zhong. 2025. Pie: Pro-grammable Inference Engine for LLM Serving. arXiv:2510.24051 [13] Google. 2026. Gemini API Context Caching. https://ai.google.dev/ gemini-api/docs/caching . Accessed: 2026-09-23. [14] Hao Kang, Ziyang Li, Weili Xu, Xinyu Yang, Yinfang Chen, Junxiong Wang, Beidi Chen, Tushar Krishna, Chenfeng Xu, and Simran Arora. 2026. ThunderAgent: A Simple, Fast and Program-Aware Agentic Inference System. arXiv:2602.13692 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2602.13692 

[15] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Cody Hao Yu, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Efficient Memory Management for Large Language Model Serving with PagedAttention. In Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP 23) . ACM. doi: 10.1145/3600006. 3613165 

[16] Hanchen Li, Qiuyang Mang, Runyuan He, Qizheng Zhang, Huanzhi Mao, Xiaokun Chen, Hangrui Zhou, Alvin Cheung, Joseph Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2025. Continuum: Efficient and Robust Multi-Turn LLM Agent Scheduling with KV Cache Time-to-Live. arXiv:2511.02230 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2511.02230 

[17] Chaofan Lin, Zhenhua Han, Chengruidong Zhang, Yuqing Yang, Fan Yang, Chen Chen, and Lili Qiu. 2024. Parrot: Efficient Serving of LLM-based Applications with Semantic Variable. In 18th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 24) . USENIX Association, 929–945. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi24/ presentation/lin-chaofan 

[18] Michael Luo, Xiaoxiang Shi, Colin Cai, Tianjun Zhang, Justin Wong, Yichuan Wang, Chi Wang, Yanping Huang, Zhifeng Chen, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2026. Agentix: An Efficient Serving En-gine for LLM Agents as General Programs. In Proceedings of the 23rd USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 26) . USENIX Association, 2443–2459. https://www.usenix.org/ conference/nsdi26/presentation/luo 

[19] Mike A. Merrill, Alexander G. Shaw, Nicholas Carlini, Boxuan Li, Harsh Raj, Ivan Bercovich, Lin Shi, Jeong Yeon Shin, Thomas Walshe, E. Kelly Buchanan, et al. 2026. Terminal-Bench: Benchmarking Agents on Hard, Realistic Tasks in Command Line Interfaces. arXiv:2601.11868 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2601.11868 

[20] Nous Research. 2026. Hermes Agent Source Code. https://github.com/ NousResearch/hermes-agent . Accessed: 2026-09-13. [21] NVIDIA. 2026. Dynamo Documentation: Agent Hints. https://docs. nvidia.com/dynamo/latest/architecture/agentic-overview.html . Ac-cessed: 2026-09-14. [22] OpenAI. 2025. Deep Research . https://openai.com/index/introducing-deep-research/ An agent that uses reasoning to synthesize large amounts of online information and complete multi-step research tasks for you. Available to Pro users today, Plus and Team next.. [23] OpenAI. 2025. Introducing Codex. https://openai.com/index/ introducing-codex/ . Accessed: 2026-09-10. [24] OpenAI. 2026. Codex CLI Source Code. https://github.com/openai/ codex . Accessed: 2026-09-13. [25] OpenAI. 2026. Prompt Caching. https://platform.openai.com/docs/ guides/prompt-caching . Accessed: 2026-09-23. [26] OpenClaw contributors. 2026. OpenClaw Source Code. https://github. com/openclaw/openclaw . Accessed: 2026-09-16. [27] Zaifeng Pan, AJJKUMAR DAHYALAL PATEL, Yipeng Shen, Zhengding Hu, Yue Guan, Wan-Lu Li, Lianhui Qin, Yida Wang, and Yufei Ding. 2025. KVFlow: Efficient Prefix Caching for Accelerating LLM-Based Multi-Agent Workflows. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , D. Belgrave, C. Zhang, H. Lin, R. Pascanu, P. Ko-niusz, M. Ghassemi, and N. Chen (Eds.), Vol. 38, Main Conference. 

> 13

Curran Associates, Inc., 126246–126265. doi: 10.52202/085713-4208 

[28] Ruoyu Qin, Zheming Li, Weiran He, Jialei Cui, Feng Ren, Mingxing Zhang, Yongwei Wu, Weimin Zheng, and Xinran Xu. 2025. Mooncake: Trading More Storage for Less Computation — A KVCache-centric Architecture for Serving LLM Chatbot. In Proceedings of the 23rd USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 25) . USENIX Association, 155–170. [29] Yongliang Shen, Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Dongsheng Li, Weiming Lu, and Yueting Zhuang. 2023. HuggingGPT: Solving AI tasks with ChatGPT and its friends in Hugging Face. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2023), 38154–38180. [30] SWE-agent contributors. 2026. SWE-agent Source Code. https:// github.com/SWE-agent/SWE-agent . Accessed: 2026-09-13. [31] Xin Tan, Yimin Jiang, Yitao Yang, and Hong Xu. 2025. Teola: Towards End-to-End Optimization of LLM-based Applications. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS 25) . ACM, 1302–1316. doi: 10.1145/3676641.3716278 

[32] Shubham Tiwari, Tapan Chugh, Nash Rickert, Simon Peter, Ratul Ma-hajan, and Haiying Shen. 2026. Cachewise: Understanding workloads and optimizing kvcache management for efficiently serving llm coding agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.16824 (2026). [33] Tian Xia, Hanchen Li, Zhifei Li, Xiaokun Chen, Hao Kang, Yifan Qiao, Yi Xu, and Ion Stoica. 2026. Idleness is Relative: Exploiting Tool-Call Idle Windows for Offloading in Agentic Systems with MORI. arXiv:2606.00866 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2606.00866 

[34] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2022. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03629 (2022). [35] Gyeong-In Yu, Joo Seong Jeong, Geon-Woo Kim, Soojeong Kim, and Byung-Gon Chun. 2022. Orca: A Distributed Serving System for Transformer-Based Generative Models. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 22) . USENIX Association, 521–538. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi22/ presentation/yu 

[36] Z.ai. 2025. GLM-4.7. https://huggingface.co/zai-org/GLM-4.7 . Model card. Accessed: 2026-09-17. [37] Qizheng Zhang, Changran Hu, Shubhangi Upasani, Boyuan Ma, Fenglu Hong, Vamsidhar Kamanuru, Jay Rainton, Chen Wu, Meng-meng Ji, Hanchen Li, et al. 2026. Agentic context engineering: Evolving contexts for self-improving language models. In International Confer-ence on Learning Representations , Vol. 2026. 86069–86100. [38] Haoyu Zheng, Fangcheng Fu, Jia Wu, Binhang Yuan, Yongqiang Zhang, Hao Wang, Yuanyuan Zhu, Xiao Yan, and Jiawei Jiang. 2026. Efficient Serving for Dynamic Agent Workflows with Prediction-based KV-Cache Management. arXiv:2605.06472 doi: 10.48550/arXiv.2605.06472 

[39] Lianmin Zheng, Liangsheng Yin, Zhiqiang Xie, Chuyue Sun, Jeff Huang, Cody Hao Yu, Shiyi Cao, Christos Kozyrakis, Ion Stoica, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Clark Barrett, and Ying Sheng. 2024. SGLang: Efficient Execution of Structured Language Model Programs. In Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (NeurIPS 2024) .doi: 10.52202/079017-2000 

[40] Yinmin Zhong, Shengyu Liu, Junda Chen, Jianbo Hu, Yibo Zhu, Xu-anzhe Liu, Xin Jin, and Hao Zhang. 2024. DistServe: Disaggregating Prefill and Decoding for Goodput-optimized Large Language Model Serving. In 18th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 24) . USENIX Association, 193–210. https: //www.usenix.org/conference/osdi24/presentation/zhong-yinmin