Tide: Reclaiming Phased Memory in Agent MicroVMs
Yiyang Wu, Chengfan Liao, Jinyu Gu
Institute of Parallel and Distributed Systems, Shanghai Jiao Tong University
Abstract
Cloud agents run each task in an isolated MicroVM. The
trouble is the harness loop inside that guest: the harness is
nearly idle while it waits on the model, then usage rises on
a tool whose size is known only at run time, which com-
plicates the memory management from the host. Existing
approaches infer reclaim targets from access frequency and
memory footprint while the guest allocator places the idle
harness and the short-lived tool on the same pages. There-
fore, reclamation either selects the wrong pages, fixes on an
incorrect capacity or partially reclaims a huge page, splitting
its transparent huge page (THP).
This paper proposes Tide, a proactive memory recla-
mation technique for agent MicroVMs. Our key insight
is that the harness already knows each phase’s memory
intent—which memory, when, and whether its contents must
survive—so the guest can report that intent as an exclusive
guest-physical region for the host to reclaim directly. To real-
ize this insight, we introduce (1) an abstraction called arena
and a set of user-space API that can manage memory with
an exclusive intent. (2) a guest-kernel allocator that places
the realize the allocation that groups exclusive, huge-page-
aligned extents; and (3) a hypervisor extension that resolves
those extents to host backing and applies the reported action,
leaving guest capacity unchanged. Experiments on recorded
agent trajectories show that Tide outperforms state-of-art
mechanism while incuring low overhead.
1
Introduction
Agents are moving into the cloud. Applications such as
Claude Code [4], OpenCode [24], Codex [22], and Open-
Claw [23] translate natural-language goals into sequences of
model interactions and tool executions, and platforms now
run each task inside an isolated MicroVM [1, 12]. The guest
hosts the harness—the runtime that assembles context, calls
the model, and executes tools—together with the processes
those tools spawn, while model inference stays in a separate
service. A host serves many tenants, so each agent gets its
own guest kernel, and the cost of that isolation is physical
memory held for the life of the task.
Four properties of memory properties matter for hosting
agentic MicroVMs. First, demand follows the phase of the
loop. The guest is nearly idle while the harness waits on the
model, and usage rises when a tool runs locally. Second, the
model chooses the next tool only at run time, so the size of
each resource burst is hard to predict. Third, harness pages
and tool pages share one guest and follow different lifetimes.
Harness state stays live for the whole run, while a tool’s pri-
vate pages last only until its process tree exits. Lastly, host
backing follows the peaks and stays after guest usage has
fallen, including memory that can already be reclaimed.
However, existing memory management techniques still
miss these properties on different dimensions. Host swap-
ping ranks pages by access frequency, so it cannot separate
idle-but-live harness pages from already-freed tool pages and
may write those freed pages out in unnecessary I/O. Virtio-
balloon [26] and virtio-mem [10] reclaim by shrinking guest
capacity to a target, but a target sized for the wait may not fit
the next burst causing severe direct guest reclaim. On top of
that, the guest allocator places independent lifetimes in the
same host huge pages, which causes reclaiming one lifetime
splits huge-page mappings the other still uses.
The root cause is that the harness already knows each
phase’s memory intent from its control flow but the harness
has no capability to report it. An intent names a scope, a trig-
ger, and a preservation rule. During a long model wait, the
scope is the harness and its persistent services, the trigger is
the wait, and the rule is to page out state that is idle but live.
When a tool’s process tree exits, the scope is that invocation,
the trigger is the exit, and the rule is to discard its private state
sooner, however much memory the tool used. Two gaps keep
that intent from driving reclamation. On the guest side, every
phase allocates from the same buddy allocator, so pages of
different intents are not distinguishable as regions and share
host huge pages. On the host side, memory intent can only
be inferred from access frequency and memory footprint and
the guest has no way to report the intent across the guest–
host boundary.
We present Tide, which closes both gaps with one abstrac-
tion, the arena. Its user-space API places each memory intent
in its own guest-physical region, and operating on one arena
leaves the others untouched. Harness state, including persis-
tent services, lives in a dedicated arena H, and each tool in-
vocation lives in its own arena T. Huge-page-aligned extents
from a shared CMA pool give each arena exclusive host huge
pages. User-space operations then can tell the host how to re-
claim that region’s backing without shrinking guest capacity.
Since the harness itself cannot issue arena operations dur-
ing a model wait or tool invocation, we design Anchor, a
user-space component that stays outside H and T, delegates
model requests and tool execution, and issues arena opera-
tions at each phase boundary. The guest reports the opera-
1
arXiv:2609.40082v1  [cs.OS]  30 Sep 2026


tion and the arena’s guest-physical ranges to the hypervisor
over a virtio channel. The hypervisor resolves those ranges
to host backing through its own translation tables and applies
the corresponding memory action while the host kernel stays
unmodified.
We implement Tide in Linux, Firecracker, and Open-
Code, OpenClaude, and Codex, with Anchor written in Rust.
On the longer SkillsBench tasks, Tide stays within 1.7%
of the baseline. On six Terminal-Bench tasks [19] running
on OpenCode, OpenClaude, and Codex, Tide reduces total
backing memory by 45.3%, 41.0%, and 34.2% relative to
baseline and by 46.8%, 39.3%, and 32.9% relative to Hyper-
Alloc, with harness-time increases of 5.1%, 1.1%, and 1.9%.
2
Background and Motivation
2.1
Cloud Agents in MicroVMs
Agents are moving to the cloud. Model and cloud providers
now offer hosted agents and agent platforms, including Ope-
nAI Codex [22], Claude Code [4], Amazon Bedrock Agent-
Core [2], Google Vertex AI Agent Engine [8], Microsoft
Foundry Agent Service [20], and Tencent WorkBuddy Man-
aged Agents [25]. Apart from interactive usage or automatic
cloud tasks, the appeal of hosting is that it decouples the
agent from the user’s device. A user can launch many tasks
at once and let each run for hours, which is impractical on
a laptop that must stay online; hosted agents keep working
in the background and deliver results when they finish. The
platform, in turn, provisions execution environments consis-
tently at scale and keeps whatever the agent executes inside
a sandbox instead of on the user’s machine.
On these platforms, each agent runs in its own MicroVM.
A host serves agents from many tenants, so the boundary be-
tween them must be stronger than a shared-kernel container
can offer. MicroVMs such as Firecracker [1] and Kata Con-
tainers [12] give each agent a dedicated guest kernel, and
they are now the sandbox of choice on agent platforms such
as AgentCore [3] and E2B [6]. The MicroVM hosts the har-
ness, a dedicated runtime that assembles context, calls the
LLM service, and executes the tool calls the model requests,
together with the workspace it operates on and the tool pro-
cesses it spawns. Model inference itself runs outside the VM
in a separate LLM service.
2.2
Why Reclamation Falls Short in Agent MicroVMs
A host today can take memory back from a VM in two ways,
swapping out cold pages, or shrinking the guest’s capacity.
On an agent VM, swapping and shrinking do reduce the
host’s footprint but they fail to notice the memory’s lifetime
and demand burst inside the harness loop, resulting in perfor-
mance degradation or even service loss. On top of that, even
if the host knew which memory to reclaim, the placement of
that memory could still degrade performance.
Swapping Lacks Lifetime Awareness. Host swapping re-
claims pages that look cold: Linux LRU [9] and Multi-
Generation LRU [15] rank pages by access history, and pro-
grammable eviction policies [30] still work from access sig-
nals alone. In an agent VM, however, cold pages come in
two kinds that access history cannot tell apart. Idle-but-live
pages belong to a harness waiting on the model or to a service
between queries; their contents will be needed again. Dead
pages belonged to a tool whose process tree has exited; their
contents will never be needed. Swapping treats both the same
way and is wrong for both: preserving dead contents spends
swap I/O and capacity on data nobody will read, while pag-
ing out live contents pays off only if the idle interval is long
enough to amortize the swap-in on the next access. Access
recency reveals neither when a tool’s lifetime ended nor how
long an idle interval will last.
Adjustment Lacks Demand Awareness. Two mechanisms,
virtio-balloon [26] and virtio-mem [10], shrink a VM’s ca-
pacity so that the host can reuse the difference, which re-
quires choosing a target. On an agent VM there is no safe
static target: a capacity that fits the waiting harness does not
fit the next tool, and a tool that allocates beyond it drives the
guest into sustained direct reclaim, stalling or failing. Faster
or cheaper adjustment [27] does not help: however quickly
the balloon inflates, the tool still runs in a VM sized for the
wait. A safe target would have to be raised before each burst
but not until the tool is actually invoked can the controller
observe the memory fluctuation.
Reclamation Lacks Placement Awareness. Suppose the
host knew exactly which pages were dead and left ample
capacity, even with that knowledge, ciscarding them could
still slow down live state as a side effect, because of where
they sit. Virtualized address translation relies on host Trans-
parent Huge Pages [16] (THPs, typically 2 MB) to keep
two-dimensional page walks [5] cheap, yet the guest al-
locator places pages without regard to lifetime or to host
huge-page boundaries. A 2 MB host page therefore routinely
mixes long-lived harness and kernel pages with short-lived
tool pages, and one tool’s pages scatter across many such
huge pages. The problem is twofold. On one hand, Hyper-
Alloc [27] and free-page reporting [26], newer mechanisms
that proactively report freed guest memory can be blocked
because scattering leaves those pages only partly free. On
the other hand, reclaiming the dead pages of a mixed huge
page forces a bad choice. The host either splits the mapping,
leaving the live pages on 4 KB mappings until khugepaged
re-collapses them, or it keeps the dead backing resident so
the huge-page mapping stays intact. No data is lost either
way, but reclaiming correctly identified dead memory now
has a side effect. It either slows live state or leaves dead back-
ing on the host. Reclaiming lifetimes independently requires
placing them apart at huge-page granularity, which only the
guest allocator can do.
In each case, the missing piece is something the harness
already has: when it waits, when a tool’s process tree ex-
its, and which pages were that tool’s. The host also needs a
2


placement that lets it act on this knowledge without side ef-
fects on the live state around it. This paper bridges this gap.
3
Key Ideas: Memory Intents and Arenas
The three failures in Section 2.2 share a root cause: the
host has to infer what guest memory means, and the guest
does not know how to place the memory in the reclamation-
friendly way. Swapping guesses lifetimes from access his-
tory and capacity adjustment guesses demand from a foot-
print, and both may guess wrong because they observe only
the traces those events leave behind rather than the events
themselves. The agent harness knowes it from the events di-
rectly: it knows when it starts waiting on the model, when
it launches a tool, and when that tool’s process tree exits.
Our system, Tide, therefore reverses the direction of infor-
mation. Instead of the host inferring from below, the guest
reports memory intent from above—which memory can be
reclaimed, when, and whether its contents must survive—
and the host acts on it under its own policy.
The agent loop exposes exactly two such opportunities,
one for each memory lifetime. When the harness begins a
model wait, its state is idle but live, and the intent is pageout
meaning that the harness’s backing can be swapped out, be-
cause they will only be needed when the response arrives.
When a tool’s process tree exits, its private memory is dead,
and the intent is destroy meaning that tool’s backing can be
discarded soon. Each intent thus names a scope (the harness,
or one tool invocation), a trigger (the wait begins, the tree
exits), and a preservation rule. Neither shrinks the guest’s
capacity: a tool always allocates freely, and reclamation acts
only on a waiting harness or an exited tool, so the target prob-
lem of Section 2.2 never arises.
Carrying these intents from user mode to the host meets
three gaps. First, nothing in the guest names the memory
one invocation owns, as its pages are interleaved with ev-
ery other allocation. Second, the host reclaims guest-physical
ranges, while a process tree names only virtual addresses, so
collecting those ranges means a page-table walk over thou-
sands of scattered pages. Third, those pages share host huge
pages with other allocation domains, so reclaiming them
splits mappings that live state still uses.
Tide closes the gaps with an arena: an exclusive set of ex-
tents, contiguous 2 MB-aligned guest-physical ranges drawn
on demand from a shared pool and bound to one lifetime.
In a VM, untouched extents cost the host nothing, because it
backs only the pages the guest touches [29], so each lifetime
can keep its own ranges. Aside from the zero-cost, the gap is
thus closed with this simple abstraction. First, one arena per
lifetime names the memory that lifetime owns. The harness
occupies a persistent arena H, and spawn_with_arena starts
each tool in its own arena T, so the tree allocates only from
T and destroying T leaves H untouched. Second, the arena
allocator records those guest-physical ranges as it allocates
them, so the report to the host is that extent list and needs no
Table 1: Guest ABI operations. Parameters shown are the
principal inputs.
Operation
Contract
create_arena()
Create an arena.
spawn_with_arena(fd, elf)
Start a process with an arena.
pageout(fd)
Pageout the arena.
pagein(fd)
Pagein the arena.
destroy_arena(fd)
Close the arena after checks.
page-table walk. Third, each extent is exclusive and aligned
to 2 MB, so discarding T returns whole host huge pages and
leaves the huge pages that back H intact.
4
Design
4.1
Arena API
Table 1 lists the Arena API provided for the userspace ap-
plications. Each function operates on an arena by its file de-
scriptor. The spawn_with_arena binds a new process to an
arena. From then on, supported allocations come from that
arena and forked children inherit the binding, while alloca-
tions and cached pages that already exist keep their own-
ers. The runtime therefore spawns each process into its arena
before that process initializes, so initialization allocates the
memory that pageout and destroy_arena can later reclaim.
The pageout requests a content-preserving swapout of a
live arena’s host backing, typically during the harness’s long
waits, until the next harness access swaps them back in on
demand. The pagein requests a proactive swap-in of a live
arena’s host backing, typically once the next harness access
is imminent, so that access does not incur major faults. The
destroy_arena discards an arena’s host backing after checks
confirm that nothing remains attached. It is still required after
process exit, since the latter only unmaps the address space
and leaves the arena and its backing in place. Once the hyper-
visor acknowledges the discard, the guest kernel can safely
reuse its memory.
4.2
Architecture and Workflow
Architecture. Figure 1a organizes Tide into three layers.
Guest user space contains a long-running harness in arena H,
tool process trees in separate arenas T, and Anchor, a dae-
mon that runs outside those arenas. The guest kernel con-
tains the arena allocator, which manages a shared pool of
exclusive physical extents, and a virtio interface that reports
each memory intent together with its affected ranges. The
hypervisor contains the corresponding virtio backend, which
resolves those guest-physical ranges to host backing, applies
the requested reclamation, and reports completion.
Workflow. The workflow is then built around the observa-
tion in Section 3. Originally, such outward operations are
performed by the harness itself, however as we proceed to
swapping out the harness state, we need a proxy to dele-
3


Remote LLM
Hypervisor GPA → HVA
② Request
②③④ Async. OP + GFN Ranges
②③④ Completion
T Extent
H Extent
Memory Intent
Control Path
MicroVM
Harness(H)
Anchor
Broker
Tool(T)
②③ Pageout(H)
④ Destroy(T)
②③ RPC
③ Invoke
① Bootstrap
④ Wait
Kernel Arena Allocator
(a) System architecture.
h = spawn(harness);
while (running) {
  req = h.create_request();
  r = llm_call(req);
  h.deliver(r);
  cmd = h.route_tool();
  t=spawn(cmd);
  out = wait_output(t);
  h.deliver(out);
}
Native Harness
H = create_arena();
h = spawn_with_arena(
      H, harness);
while (running) {
  req = h.create_request();
  pageout(H);
  r = llm_call(req);
  h.deliver(r);
  T = create_arena();
  cmd = h.route_tool();
  t=spawn_with_arena(T,cmd);
  out = wait_output(t);
  destroy_arena(T);
  h.deliver(out);
}
With Tide
(b) Harness loop.
Figure 1. Tide architecture and the harness loop. (a) Anchor in guest user space turns phase and lifetime boundaries into memory
intents; the guest kernel resolves each intent into the extents of one arena; and the hypervisor acts on their host backing. (b) The
loop without and with Tide: create_arena establishes H and T; spawn_with_arena starts each process in its arena; pageout(H)
on each model wait; pagein(H) swaps that backing back in before the harness resumes, so the next access does not fault; and
destroy_arena(T) after the tool exits.
gate the outward calls, and we call that proxy Anchor. An-
chor thus handles RPC from the harness to delegate model
communication and tool invocation and turns each execution
phase into an arena operation that notifies the guest kernel.
Figure 1a shows the guest user-space components that carry
it with detailed control and intent flow steps while Figure 1b
shows the same stages on an agent control flow and how Tide
inserts the arena operations between each step.
1 Bootstrap. To page out the harness, Anchor must hold
its arena handle and know when the harness is waiting and
how to suspend it. In addition to ordinary startup, Tide there-
fore runs a bootstrap step that supplies these. During boot-
strap, Anchor creates a persistent arena H and starts the har-
ness in it with spawn_with_arena while retaining its arena
handle and its cgroup handle. Once initialization finishes, the
harness opens a persistent connection to Anchor, and later
model communication and tool invocation pass through it,
so Anchor sees each wait as it begins. Anchor itself runs
outside H, and its communication and result buffering stay
out of the memory that pageout will affect. Moreover, as the
control flow of the harness is now partly delegated, the har-
ness cannot act on user signals such as SIGTERM on itself.
Therefore Anchor intercept them and decide whether to stop
the in-flight model or tool call or to stop the harness.
2 Model request. When the harness delegates a model
request to Anchor through socket RPC, Anchor forwards
the request to the remote LLM and waits for the response.
However, pageout(H) is safe only when every agent that can
touch H is waiting. Parent and subagents share the same
arena
H, and one agent may have several model or tool
calls in flight. To resolve this, we design a suspension bro-
ker inside Anchor that can validate the condition. The broker
records the live agents, and counts how many of each agent’s
calls have left the harness. Only if the condition is met, the
broker can safely suspend the harness through its retained
cgroup handle and allowes pageout(H) so that H’s host back-
ing can be reclaimed into swap to save host’s memory. To
avoid unnecessary swapping on short request, Anchor waits
for a grace period before issuing pageout(H). Each return-
ing call releases one count and the harness is resumed by the
Anchor once any response is forwarded from Anchor. As an
optimization, Anchor requests pagein(H) when the LLM’s
reasoning stage ends. The hypervisor tracks H’s active ex-
tents and swaps in only those the next harness access needs,
so the resume does not incur major faults.
3 Tool invocation. If the model requests a tool after
model request, the harness also needs to delegate that tool in-
vocation to Anchor. Compared with regular tool invocations,
Anchor creates a separate arena T and starts the tool with
spawn_with_arena so that its descendants inherit the arena
binding. This separates the invocation’s allocations from H
instead of letting a tool forked directly from the harness in-
herit H. While the tool runs, the harness waits, allowing the
runtime to issue pageout(H) under the same grace-period
and suspension conditions. For performance, Anchor applies
a heuristic split, where short-running, low-cost commands
such as ls, cd, and pwd skip arena management and are in-
voked directly by Anchor to avoid the cost of arena binding.
4 Tool completion. When the tool’s process tree exits,
this invocation’s private memory is dead, but exit only un-
maps its address space, so arena T and its host backing re-
main until Anchor reclaims them. As The harness still needs
the tool’s output after that reclamation, the tool writes std-
out and stderr to an anonymous pipe and Anchor buffers
that output outside T. Anchor, which holds T, then issues
destroy_arena(T). Once cleanup checks confirm that noth-
ing remains attached, the guest kernel submits the discard
of T. After the completion, the harness may steps 2 – 4 until
the model returns a finish signal or the user intervenes with
an key-interrupt signal.
4


PDF
Exoplanet
OCR
Mario
Files
Quantum
Finance
Video
0
1
Performance
Baseline
Tide
HyperAlloc
Figure 2. SkillsBench ground-truth execution relative to the
baseline. Higher is better.
0
1
(a) Backing  OpenCode
0
1
(b) Backing  OpenClaude
schedule
wal
finance
merger
portfolio
raman
0
1
(c) Backing  Codex
vs. baseline
Baseline
HyperAlloc
Tide
Figure 3. Terminal-Bench backing memory relative to
the same-harness baseline; lower is better. (a) OpenCode.
(b) OpenClaude. (c) Codex.
5
Evaluation
5.1
Methodology
Testbed. Our testbed uses an Intel Xeon Gold 5317 CPU
at 3.00 GHz, 256 GB of RAM, and a 512 GB Samsung
MZQL2960HCJR-00A07 NVMe SSD.
5.2
Application Performance
SkillsBench Ground-Truth Execution. Figure 2 compares
eight offline solve.sh tasks, counted when the command ex-
its successfully and the expected outputs are present. These
are typical agent tasks, spanning document editing, file or-
ganization, media processing, and numerical or tabular anal-
ysis. On the six tasks whose baseline median exceeds 1 s,
Tide stays within 1.7% of the baseline. The largest change is
Finance, from 15.09 to 14.84 s, 1.7% sooner. Relative to Hy-
perAlloc, Tide is 1.2–5.3% faster on OCR, Finance, Quan-
tum, and Mario, and 3.3–5.1% slower on Exoplanet and
Video. PDF and Files finish in under a second, and their me-
dian gaps stay within about 50 ms, the runner’s completion-
polling granularity. PDF’s baseline of 0.364 s rises to 0.414 s
under HyperAlloc.
5.3
Agentic Memory Efficiency
Figure 3 reports the backing memory integral and harness
time on six Terminal-Bench tasks [19], one trajectory each
on OpenCode, OpenClaude, and Codex. They range from
calendar scheduling and log recovery to document extrac-
tion, table merging, and numerical fitting: Schedule, WAL,
Finance, Merger, Portfolio, and Raman. Backing memory is
the harness’s share of host memory after removing the floor
present at the start of replay. The baseline and Tide run in
Firecracker, with free-page reporting on the baseline; Hy-
perAlloc runs in QEMU. Relative to baseline, total backing
memory is 45.3%, 41.0%, and 34.2% lower and harness time
is 5.1%, 1.1%, and 1.9% longer. Relative to HyperAlloc, the
reductions are 46.8%, 39.3%, and 32.9%, and harness time
is 2.7% longer on OpenCode, 1.5% shorter on OpenClaude,
and 0.2% shorter on Codex. The added time is demand pag-
ing: synchronous pageout bypasses the swap cache, so every
fault goes through the I/O stack. These tools consume little
memory, so HyperAlloc stays near the baseline, 2.9% higher,
2.8% lower, and 1.9% lower. The duration-weighted average
falls by 47.9%, 41.7%, and 35.4%.
6
Related Work
Memory Elasticity in Virtualized Systems. A VM provi-
sioned for its peak leaves memory idle whenever the foot-
print falls. Vertical elasticity adjusts the allocation to mea-
sured demand [21]. Squeezy returns gigabytes from a server-
less VM in under a second [14]. HyperAlloc lets the hy-
pervisor reclaim guest frames that are already free [27].
Puffer scales a function MicroVM by resizing its mem-
ory in blocks [7]. Each of them reacts to a runtime signal,
such as the footprint or the set of free frames. Tide acts on
an application-reported intent, which names the region and
whether its contents must survive.
Semantic-Aware Memory Management. Applications and
the OS evolve separately, so the OS sees little of what
a workload’s memory means. M3 coordinates application-
specific reclamation across software layers [17]. TierVM
delegates fine-grained tiering to the guest, using knowl-
edge available only inside the VM [28]. Demeter and vtism
likewise drive tiering from guest- or VM-level informa-
tion [11, 18]. Disaggregated memory chooses a transfer size
from observed spatial locality [13]. These systems guide
reclamation, placement, or movement from what they ob-
serve. Tide reports the lifetime itself: which region, when,
and whether its contents must survive.
7
Conclusion
We propose Tide, a proactive memory reclamation technique
for agent MicroVMs that reclaims idle harness backing dur-
ing a model wait and dead tool backing after the tool ex-
its. The key insight is that the harness already knows each
phase’s memory intent, so the guest can report that intent as
an exclusive guest-physical region, thereby letting the host
reclaim the region directly. The design spans the harness, the
guest kernel, and the hypervisor, and end-to-end replay re-
duces backing memory substantially at low overhead.
5


References
[1] A. Agache, M. Brooker, A. Iordache, A. Liguori, R. Neuge-
bauer, P. Piwonka, and D.-M. Popa. Firecracker: Lightweight
virtualization for serverless applications.
In 17th USENIX
Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementa-
tion (NSDI 20), pages 419–434, Santa Clara, CA, Feb. 2020.
USENIX Association.
[2] Amazon Web Services. Amazon Bedrock AgentCore. https:
//aws.amazon.com/bedrock/agentcore/. Accessed September
20, 2026.
[3] Amazon Web Services.
Host agent or tools with Ama-
zon
Bedrock
AgentCore
Runtime.
https://docs.aws.
amazon.com/bedrock-agentcore/latest/devguide/agents-
tools-runtime.html. Accessed September 22, 2026.
[4] Anthropic. Claude Code. https://claude.com/product/claude-
code. Accessed September 17, 2026.
[5] R. Bhargava, B. Serebrin, F. Spadini, and S. Manne. Acceler-
ating two-dimensional page walks for virtualized systems. In
Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Archi-
tectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating
Systems, ASPLOS XIII, pages 26–35. Association for Com-
puting Machinery, 2008.
[6] E2B. E2B: The AI agent cloud. https://e2b.dev/. Accessed
September 22, 2026.
[7] H. Fan, K. Wang, Z. Huang, X. Zhang, H. Mi, S. Wu, and
C. Yu. Puffer: A serverless platform based on vertical mem-
ory scaling. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems, 37(1):184–197, 2026.
[8] Google Cloud. Vertex AI Agent Engine. https://cloud.google.
com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/agent-engine/overview.
Accessed September 20, 2026.
[9] M. Gorman. Understanding the Linux Virtual Memory Man-
ager. Prentice Hall, 2004.
[10] D. Hildenbrand and M. Schulz. virtio-mem: Paravirtualized
memory hot(un)plug. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIG-
PLAN/SIGOPS International Conference on Virtual Execu-
tion Environments, VEE ’21. Association for Computing Ma-
chinery, 2021.
[11] J. Hu, Z. Hu, C.-F. Wu, and M.-C. Yang. Demeter: A scal-
able and elastic tiered memory solution for virtualized cloud
via guest delegation.
In Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS
31st Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, SOSP ’25,
pages 169–185. Association for Computing Machinery, 2025.
[12] Kata Containers. Kata Containers: Open source container run-
time software. https://katacontainers.io/. Accessed September
22, 2026.
[13] K. Koh, K. Kim, S. Jeon, and J. Huh. Disaggregated cloud
memory with elastic block management. IEEE Transactions
on Computers, 68(1):39–52, 2019.
[14] O. Lagkas Nikolos, C. Alverti, S. Psomadakis, G. I. Goumas,
and N. Koziris.
Squeezy: Rapid VM memory reclamation
for serverless functions. In Proceedings of the 21st European
Conference on Computer Systems, EuroSys ’26, pages 1467–
1482. Association for Computing Machinery, 2026.
[15] Linux Kernel Documentation.
Multi-gen LRU.
https:
//docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/mm/multigen lru.html.
Ac-
cessed September 22, 2026.
[16] Linux Kernel Documentation. Transparent hugepage support.
https://docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/mm/transhuge.html. Ac-
cessed September 22, 2026.
[17] D. Lion, A. Chiu, and D. Yuan. M3: End-to-end memory man-
agement in elastic system software stacks.
In Proceedings
of the Sixteenth European Conference on Computer Systems,
EuroSys ’21, pages 507–522. Association for Computing Ma-
chinery, 2021.
[18] Z. Lu, Y. Ou, L. Wu, Z. Wang, M. Lai, X. Ge, Z. Song, and
M. Xie. vtism: Efficient tiered memory management for vir-
tual machines with CXL. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM
International Systems and Storage Conference, SYSTOR ’25,
pages 92–106. Association for Computing Machinery, 2025.
[19] M. A. Merrill, A. G. Shaw, N. Carlini, et al. Terminal-Bench:
Benchmarking agents on hard, realistic tasks in command line
interfaces. In International Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations, 2026.
[20] Microsoft. Microsoft Foundry Agent Service. https://learn.
microsoft.com/en-us/azure/ai-foundry/agents/overview. Ac-
cessed September 20, 2026.
[21] G. Molt´o, M. Caballer, and C. de Alfonso.
Automatic
memory-based vertical elasticity and oversubscription on
cloud platforms. Future Generation Computer Systems, 56:1–
10, 2016.
[22] OpenAI.
Introducing Codex.
https://openai.com/index/
introducing-codex/, May 2025.
Accessed September 17,
2026.
[23] OpenClaw.
OpenClaw: Open-source AI assistant.
https:
//openclaw.ai/. Accessed September 17, 2026.
[24] OpenCode.
OpenCode: The open source AI coding agent.
https://opencode.ai/. Accessed September 22, 2026.
[25] Tencent Cloud. WorkBuddy Managed Agents. https://cloud.
tencent.com/product/workbuddy-managed-agents. Accessed
September 22, 2026.
[26] M. S. Tsirkin and C. Huck.
Virtual I/O device (VIR-
TIO)
version
1.2.
OASIS
Committee
Specification
01, https://docs.oasis-open.org/virtio/virtio/v1.2/cs01/virtio-
v1.2-cs01.html, July 2022.
[27] L.
Wrenger,
K.
Albes,
M.
Wurps,
C.
Dietrich,
and
D. Lohmann. HyperAlloc: Efficient VM memory de/inflation
via hypervisor-shared page-frame allocators. In Proceedings
of the Twentieth European Conference on Computer Systems,
EuroSys ’25, pages 702–719, New York, NY, USA, 2025. As-
sociation for Computing Machinery.
[28] T. Xing, J. Yang, J. Picorel, and A. Barbalace. Rethinking
tiered memory management in cloud data centers. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2025 ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing,
SoCC ’25, pages 74–87. Association for Computing Machin-
ery, 2025.
[29] P. Zeng, H. Huang, Y. Pan, W. Xia, D. Yang, J. Chen, and
N. Zhang. Compaction-Free memory defragmentation for vir-
tualization via infinite guest physical address space. In 20th
USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Im-
plementation (OSDI 26), pages 1731–1747, Seattle, WA, July
2026. USENIX Association.
[30] T. Zussman, I. Zarkadas, J. Carin, A. Cheng, H. Franke, J. Pf-
efferle, and A. Cidon. cache ext: Customizing the page cache
with eBPF. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 31st Sympo-
6


sium on Operating Systems Principles, SOSP ’25, pages 462–
478, New York, NY, USA, 2025. Association for Computing
Machinery.
7
