Title: Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2609.00243v1

Published Time: Wed, 02 Sep 2026 00:11:48 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
# Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory 

# Michael Wu ∗

South Dakota State University Brookings, SD, USA Wu.Beining@jacks.sdstate.edu 

# Arquimedes Canedo ∗

Siemens Digital Industries Software Princeton, NJ, USA arquimedes.canedo@siemens.com 

## Abstract 

LLM agents that cache recovery suggestions from API errors can skip re-derivation in later episodes, spending fewer tokens and fewer model calls on constraints they have already learned. Server-side data drift turns those cached fixes into silent failures, and the usual remedy, re-deriving on every episode, gives the savings back. We introduce invalidation contracts , a protocol layer that attaches version stamps and cacheability hints to every recovery suggestion so the client can evict stale entries without trial and error, and keep the rest. The contract decomposes realized savings into two independent factors: validity , the fraction of cached suggestions that remain correct after a drift event, and compliance , the fraction the planner applies on the first attempt. Validity depends only on the protocol and is vendor-independent. Compliance depends on the planner model: identical wire bytes yield 100% first-try compliance on Claude Haiku 4.5 and 11% or below on Claude Sonnet 5, which exhibits input-schema conservatism , refusing fixes that add fields the original request did not contain. We evaluate across seven models, three serving paths, two domains, and approximately 9,400 episodes. Row-level invalidation raises compliance by 0 to 66.7 percentage points across the seven models, 55.6 to 66.7 on three, and recovers 29–33% of baseline token cost on four of seven models, while table-level invalidation destroys co-located entries and drops post-drift first-try rates to 0% on five of seven. Eviction precision is 1.00 at row granularity on every model under the row-level oracle of §4.1. The contract adds 15% to response payload. Version-stamp validity is deterministic by construction and produced identical results across every model and serving path, with zero contract failures in the entire evaluation. 

## Keywords 

LLM agents, cross-episode memory, cache invalidation, API proto-cols, data drift, recovery suggestions 

## 1 Introduction 

LLM agents that call APIs repeatedly tend to remember what worked and reuse it in later episodes [29, 33]. This saves tokens when the server’s reference data stays the same. When the data changes, the cached fix becomes wrong. Naive memory (caching without invalidation) saves 5–28% of tokens over no memory at all, but table-level invalidation destroys that gain on every constraint class that shares a table with the one that drifted: post-drift first-try rates drop to 0% on five of seven models. 1 Imprecise invalidation is actively harmful. The problem has a structural root. Recovery suggestions to-day [3] carry no metadata about their validity. An agent that caches 

> ∗Both authors contributed equally to this work.
> 1All opening numbers trace to the A1 and A2 arms of the drifted stream in Table 3 and Table 6.

LLM Agent 

Planner (LLM) Memory Store Eviction Policy Fix Extraction 

API Server 

Reference Tables Table Registry Business Logic Feedback Generator request response + 

invalidation contract data drift 

Figure 1: System overview. On the client (left), the planner uses cached fixes to generate the next request; the response comes back to fix extraction, the eviction policy governs the memory store, and the store feeds the planner again. On the server (right), reference tables feed a versioned reg-istry, which feeds business-logic policies, which feed the feedback generator. The feedback generator attaches inval-idation metadata to every response. Data drift enters the server through the reload endpoint. 

a suggestion has no signal to tell it when the suggestion expires. It can only discover staleness by replaying the error and watch-ing the fix fail. HTTP data responses solved this decades ago with 

Cache-Control , ETag , and conditional requests [9]. The IETF tra-dition standardized the diagnostic envelope for API errors [22, 23] but left the recovery layer empty. No protocol tells the agent what to cache, for how long, or when to revalidate. Figure 1 shows the architecture. An LLM agent calls an API server repeatedly across episodes. Between episodes the agent may cache recovery suggestions from previous failures and inject them as a memory block into the next request. The server may update its reference data at any time (data drift). The invalidation contract is the set of fields the server attaches to every response so the client can decide what to keep and what to evict. This paper introduces invalidation contracts , a protocol layer that attaches cache-control semantics to recovery suggestions. Two fields on every suggestion (a cacheability hint and a version stamp) plus a structured diff on schema reload give the agent enough information to evict stale knowledge without trial and error. We implement six protocol levels, from a bare version stamp through row-level diffs to dependency-vector comparison, and measure each across seven models, three serving paths, two domains, and approximately 9,400 episodes. 

> 1arXiv:2609.00243v1 [cs.AI] 31 Aug 2026 Michael Wu and Arquimedes Canedo

The contract splits realized savings into two factors: 

> The Savings Equation

realized savings = validity × compliance (𝑚, 𝑝, 𝑎 ) (1)      

> 𝑚 = model, 𝑝 = protocol, 𝑎 = action type

Validity is the fraction of cached suggestions that remain correct after a drift event. The contract controls it entirely. Validity is identical across all seven models and all three serving paths we tested, with zero contract failures in approximately 9,400 episodes. 

Compliance is the fraction of valid suggestions the agent actually applies on the first attempt. It depends on the LLM model ( 𝑚 ), the protocol level ( 𝑝 , our Levels 0–6), and the action type ( 𝑎 , whether the fix rewrites an existing field or adds a new one). Compliance varies by model but is engineerable. Adding row-level invalidation raised compliance by 0 to 66.7 percentage points across the seven models, and by 55.6 to 66.7 on three of them, without changing the model. 2

We make the following contributions: (1) The invalidation contract protocol, with six measured levels from version stamps through dependency vectors (§3). (2) Empirical evidence across seven models, three serving paths, two domains, and ∼9,400 episodes with zero contract failures, showing that validity is a protocol property and compliance is a model property (§5). (3) A savings decomposition that separates the term the API provider controls (validity) from the term the model vendor controls (compliance), giving API providers a concrete engineering target (§5). (4) A price sheet for eager versus lazy rule-drift detection, with both columns measured on the same stream (Table 5, §6.3). (5) Input-schema conservatism : the observation that a model may refuse to add a field its input schema did not contain even when told exactly which field to add, which bounds what any protocol can achieve and is not predicted by model recency (§6.1). The server implementation is available at https://github.com/ arquicanedo/self-reflective-apis and the client-side evaluation harness at https://github.com/beining1008/cross-episode-memory-client. All reported numbers trace to the archived data layer in the client repository: the per-run and per-cell tab-separated (TSV) extraction behind Tables 3–7, and the per-episode run artifacts with vendor token-accounting fields removed. 

## 2 Related Work 

Storing what worked. Deployed agents write successful calls and repairs into a persistent store and reuse them in later episodes [17, 21, 29, 33]. The interface those calls travel over has been standardized in parallel, from tool-invocation frameworks [28] to the vendor and agent protocols now carrying them [2, 25], and benchmarks evaluate the resulting agents against API suites, web environments and repository tasks [5, 16, 18, 34, 35, 37]. What this line governs is what enters the store and how it is retrieved. An      

> 2A2D over A1 in Table 3: Claude Haiku 4.5 (+55.6 pp), Claude Sonnet 4.6 (+63.0 pp), GPT-5-mini (+66.7 pp); gemini-3.5-flash (+48.2 pp), Claude Sonnet 5 (+11.1 pp), and
> gpt-5.4-mini and deepseek-v4-flash (0.0 pp), the last two already at their compli-ance ceiling and floor respectively at A1.

entry’s validity is settled once, at the moment it is written, and nothing in the interface states when it stops holding. 

Verdicts the client computes for itself. A natural remedy is to have the client audit the stored entry, and the record separates two settings. Absent an external signal, self-correction does not reliably improve an answer, and self-critique scores track the model’s confidence rather than the world [13, 14, 31, 32], though iterative refinement remains useful where the text is itself the objective [19, 27]. The second setting supplies an external signal: a compiler, a test, or a tool response. There repair works, and the gain belongs to the signal rather than to introspection [4, 11, 24]. Recent benchmarks now measure that separation directly [6, 15, 30]. Both settings compute the verdict from what the client already holds. A reference table that rotated on the server leaves no trace in that context, so no amount of self-checking recovers it. 

Pricing freshness on the wire. Deciding what a caller may keep, and when it must check again, is old work. HTTP gives a response an explicit freshness lifetime and a validator the caller presents to revalidate without refetching [9]. Service description carries the same discipline into APIs, from semantic markup [7, 20] through hypermedia constraints [8, 10] to machine-readable schemas and typed introspection [12, 26], and the agent-facing protocols inherit it [36]. The error path was standardized separately, as a typed enve-lope reporting what went wrong [22, 23], and structured recovery suggestions sit one layer above it [3]. In all of it the cache-control vocabulary attaches to the data response and the diagnostic vo-cabulary attaches to the error, while the suggestion, the one object an agent actually caches, carries neither. The invalidation contract puts both on that object: a hint saying whether the suggestion may be kept at all, and a stamp saying when it stopped being true. 

## 3 The Invalidation Contract 

An invalidation contract is a set of machine-readable fields that travel with every API response, telling the caller what it may cache, what that cache depends on, and when the dependency has changed. 

## 3.1 The Two APIs 

The contract fields in the rest of this section name concepts that belong to the APIs underneath, not to the protocol. We define them first, because the listings are unreadable otherwise. Both APIs share one domain model, shown in Figure 2. A refer-ence table is a named, server-side dictionary from a key to a row of values: token_funding_map , for instance, maps a payment token to its funding type. Each table carries a version , a string the server bumps whenever the table’s contents change. A derivation rule re-lates one table to another: a declaration that a value in table 𝐴 must correspond to a value in table 𝐵 . The set of rule declarations has its own fingerprint, which changes when rules are added or redeclared but not when table data changes. A policy is a validation the API enforces on an incoming request by consulting one or more tables through zero or more rules. When a request violates a policy, the server rejects it and emits a recovery suggestion : a typed, machine-readable description of the change that would make the request pass. Everything the contract adds is metadata about which tables and rules a given suggestion depended on.     

> 2Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory
> Domain model
> Reference table v Row (key →values) Derivation rule Policy Recovery suggestion
> contains related by enforced by violated ⇒
> Acme billing instance
> active_csm_codes 1.0.0
> plan_partner_growth requires_recognition
> promo must be eligible
> USE_REQUIRED_PROMO
> drift bumps the version

Figure 2: The domain model both APIs share, with the Acme billing instantiation beside it. A versioned reference table holds keyed rows; derivation rules relate rows across tables; policies enforce the rules; a violated policy emits a recovery suggestion. Data drift changes a table and bumps its version, which is the event the invalidation contract exists to report. The Level 5 listing’s graph nodes are the table:key pairs of the second row. 

Acme billing. The primary domain wraps Stripe, a commercial payment-processing service, with five policies over six reference tables. Three tables carry the paper’s examples. active_csm_codes 

maps a plan to the promotional code currently assigned to it by a customer success manager (CSM), the human account owner; these codes rotate on a business schedule, which is the paper’s breaking drift event. promo_eligibility records which promotional codes a plan may actually redeem, and the rule requires_recognition 

ties the two together: a code assigned in the first table must exist in the second. token_funding_map maps a payment-method token to its funding type (credit or debit), and recommended_credit_ token names the replacement to use when a policy requires credit. These two are related by the funding-type policy, which is why a single funding fix depends on two tables, the case Level 4 exists to express. 

Recipe conversion. The second domain validates ingredient sub-stitutions against reference tables of celiac-safe brands and incom-patible ingredient combinations. Its structure is the same, one rung simpler: policies consult tables, but the dietary ladder’s rules chain less deeply. It is in the evaluation to supply a third hint shape, a 

rewrite-a-value hint that replaces an ingredient the task already names, and to test whether the contract’s behaviour survives a change of domain. Both APIs share the same invalidation contract. The drift schedule and the episode streams are in §4. 

## 3.2 Protocol Elements 

The contract adds three per-suggestion fields and two response-level fields. All are optional: a server that emits none of them pro-duces a Level 0 response (plain-text error, nothing cacheable). 

Per-suggestion fields. Every recovery suggestion carries: 

• cache_hint : "cacheable" or "recompute" . A cacheable fix comes from a closed, server-side reference table (e.g., a mapping from payment-method tokens to funding types); a recompute fix is derivable from the request itself (e.g., a numeric rounding correction). 

• table : the name of the reference table the fix depends on. Present only when cache_hint is "cacheable" .

• tables : a dependency vector, a list of {table, version} 

pairs for fixes that depend on more than one table. When present, tables takes precedence over the scalar table 

field. This is a Level 4 addition (§3.3). 

Response-level fields. Every response (success or error) carries: 

• table_versions : a dictionary mapping each loaded refer-ence table to its current version string. The client compares this against the versions it stored at cache time; a mismatch on any table referenced by a cached suggestion triggers invalidation. 

• rules_version : a 12-character SHA-256 prefix of the cur-rent derivation-rule declarations (from-table, to-table, re-lation triples). This hash changes when rules are added, removed, or redeclared with a different relation, but not when table data changes. It enables eager detection of rule drift on the success path, where no recovery suggestions are emitted and per-suggestion fields are absent. The contract has two channels, and the ladder in §3.3 interleaves them because that is the order in which we found them to matter. The wire channel is what the server emits: Levels 0, 1, 4, 5, and 6 each add fields to the previous level’s response. The consumption 

channel is how the client presents a fix to the planner once it has arrived: Levels 2 and 3 change the system prompt and the memory block, and leave the wire format byte-for-byte identical to Level 1. That distinction matters for reading the rest of this section. A consumption level cannot have a listing, because there is nothing new on the wire to show. It is still a level in the sense that it is an independent, orderable intervention with a measured effect on realized savings, but it is not a change an API provider ships. Both are shown in Table 1, which marks each level with where it takes effect. §3.4 describes what Levels 2 and 3 put in the prompt and why. The listings that follow show the wire additions at Levels 1, 4, 5, and 6. 

Level 1: structured suggestion with version stamps 

> {"success": false, "recovery_feedback": { "suggestions": [ {"type": "USE_REQUIRED_FUNDING_TYPE", "parameters": {"payment_method_token": "acme_pm_visa_credit"}, "cache_hint": "cacheable", "table": "recommended_credit_token" }]}, "table_versions": { "recommended_credit_token": "1.0.0", "token_funding_map": "1.0.0", "active_csm_codes": "1.0.0" }}

Level 1 is the root of the contract. The client caches the suggestion and tags it with table = "recommended_credit_token" and the corresponding version "1.0.0" from table_versions . On a later 

> 3Michael Wu and Arquimedes Canedo

response, if table_versions reports a different version for that table, the client evicts the entry. 

Level 4: adds dependency vector (suggestion excerpt) 

> {"type": "USE_REQUIRED_FUNDING_TYPE", "parameters": {"payment_method_token": "acme_pm_visa_credit"}, "cache_hint": "cacheable", "table": "recommended_credit_token", // Level 4 addition: both tables this fix depends on "tables": [ {"table": "token_funding_map", "version": "1.0.0"}, {"table": "recommended_credit_token", "version": "1.0.0"} ]}

The funding-type fix depends on two tables: token_funding_map 

determines whether the payment method’s funding type is permit-ted, and recommended_credit_token provides the replacement token. Level 4 makes both dependencies explicit in the tables list. The client invalidates when either version moves, without needing to infer the relationship itself. 

Level 5: knowledge graph (GET /admin/graph, excerpt)  

> // 23 nodes and 20 edges total; two shown here {"nodes": { "active_csm_codes:plan_partner_growth": { "table": "active_csm_codes", "key": "plan_partner_growth", "version": "1.0.0" }, "promo_eligibility:SUMMERSALE25": { "table": "promo_eligibility", "key": "SUMMERSALE25", "version": "1.0.0" }}, "edges": [ { "from": "active_csm_codes:plan_partner_growth", "to": "promo_eligibility:SUMMERSALE25", "relation": "requires_recognition" } ]}

The edge requires_recognition encodes that the CSM code assigned to plan_partner_growth must exist in promo_ eligibility . When the CSM table rotates from SUMMERSALE25 to 

WINTERLAUNCH26 , the server walks this edge and reports promo_ eligibility:SUMMERSALE25 as affected_downstream . The client can query the full graph (23 nodes, 20 edges in the Acme domain) via GET /admin/graph . The walk uses the pre-reload graph snapshot because the edge to SUMMERSALE25 disappears after the new data is applied. 

Level 6: rules fingerprint on a success response 

> // No recovery_feedback on success, but the // fingerprint still travels with the response {"success": true, "table_versions": { "recommended_credit_token": "1.0.0", "token_funding_map": "1.0.0", "active_csm_codes": "1.0.0" }, "rules_version": "ec524f499ebe" }

This is a success response with no recovery_feedback . The client never sees dependency vectors on the success path because they ride only on suggestions. The rules_version hash ( ec524f499ebe )fills that gap. If a later response carries a different hash while all 

table_versions stay the same, the client knows a derivation rule changed and can compare its cached vectors against the new schema on the next failure. 

Reload endpoint. A POST /admin/reload-table endpoint in the server lets an operator push new table data without restarting the server. In the client-side evaluation harness, the DriftDriver 

automates this by reading declarative scenario manifests that spec-ify which tables change at which episode and from which snapshot. The response includes the old and new version strings, a structured diff (added, removed, and changed keys), and a list of affected_ downstream node identifiers computed by walking the knowledge graph forward from the changed keys. The walk uses the pre-reload 

graph snapshot: edges from the old data (which the client still holds in its cache) may disappear after the reload, so the server must traverse them before overwriting. 

## 3.3 Protocol Levels 

Table 1 arranges the contract into seven levels along the two axes just introduced. The “Where” column records which channel each level acts on: five levels change the wire format, and two change only how the client consumes what arrives. L0–L3 address com-pliance : getting the planner to apply the fix at all. L4–L6 address 

validity : ensuring a cached fix still matches the current server state. L1 straddles both factors: its structured suggestion format aids compliance, while its version stamps and cache_hint enable inval-idation. The experiments in §5 hold compliance fixed at L3 (which subsumes L2) and vary the validity channel across the A-ladder (§3.5). The wire-format delta between levels is small. At Level 1 each suggestion carries two fields ( cache_hint and table ) and the re-sponse envelope carries table_versions . Level 4 adds one field per suggestion ( tables , a list of {table, version} pairs). Level 6 adds one field to the envelope ( rules_version ). The full Level 4 response is shown in §3.2; the incremental fields at each level are visible in the column “What changes” of Table 1. 

## 3.4 The Consumption Levels 

Levels 2 and 3 are the two consumption levels. Neither adds a byte to the wire; both change what the client puts in front of the planner after a Level 1 response arrives. We state what each one writes, because a level with no listing is otherwise unreproducible. 

Level 2: patch protocol. The client adds one sentence to the system prompt: “merge the suggestion parameters into your next request verbatim; do not paraphrase or omit fields.” Without it, a planner that has read a structured suggestion still tends to restate the fix in its own vocabulary, renaming a field or dropping one it judges redundant, and the server rejects the retry for a second reason. The sentence converts the suggestion from advice into a patch to apply. Level 2 is the highest-leverage intervention we measured in calibration, raising compliance on Claude Haiku 4.5 and Claude Sonnet 4.6 [1]. 

> 4Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory

Table 1: Levels of the invalidation contract. “Where” marks the channel: wire levels change what the server emits; consumption 

levels change how the client presents an arrived fix to the planner, leaving the wire format identical to L1. Only wire levels are something an API provider ships. L0–L3 engineer compliance; L4–L6 engineer validity. L1 straddles both: its structured format aids compliance, and its version stamps enable invalidation. This evaluation holds compliance fixed at L3 (which subsumes L2) and varies the validity channel; see Table 2 for the arm-to-level mapping.                                   

> Level Name Where What changes What it solves
> L0 Raw feedback [3] Wire Plain-text error Nothing cacheable L1 Structured suggestion Wire Typed fix + cache_hint +table + version Single-table invalidation L2 Patch protocol Consumption Wire as L1; system prompt teaches “merge pa-rameters verbatim” Planner compliance L3 Amended input Consumption Wire as L1; memory block presents fixes as pre-applied amendments Removes instruction conflict (minor nudge) L4 Dependency vectors Wire tables : [{table, version}, . . . ] per suggestion Multi-table invalidation without client-side deriva-tion L5 Subgraph propagation Wire Versioned graph: nodes = facts, edges = deriva-tions Chain invalidation at arbitrary depth L6 Rules fingerprint Wire rules_version hash on every response Eager detection of rule drift on the success path

Level 3: amended input. The client changes where the fix appears rather than what it says. At Level 2 a cached fix arrives in the mem-ory block as an instruction the planner is asked to follow, which competes with the task instructions already there; the planner then has two directives about the same request and satisfies whichever it read last. At Level 3 the memory block presents the fix as an amendment already applied to the input, so there is one description of the request rather than a request plus a correction. This pro-duced a smaller additional gain than Level 2 but eliminated a class of instruction-conflict failures in which the planner applied some suggestion fields and silently dropped others. Level 3 subsumes Level 2: every Level 3 configuration carries the Level 2 sentence as well, which is why the experiments hold the pair fixed rather than varying them separately (§4). 

## 3.5 Two Ladders: Server Levels, Client Arms 

The protocol levels are the server’s design decisions: what informa-tion to attach to the response. They say nothing about what a client does with it. A client that receives a version stamp may ignore it, may flush its whole cache on any change, or may evict one row. Those are the client’s design decisions, and the paper varies them along a second ladder, the A-ladder , whose rungs are the experi-mental arms. Results are reported per arm, so the A-ladder is the axis of every table in §5. Six arms of the same client run against the same server. A0 keeps no memory and re-derives every constraint; it is the cost baseline. A1 stores what it learns and injects it later, with no channel by which the server can report that a stored item has become false. A2 adds invalidation at table granularity, so a version bump drops everything the client holds from that table. A2D adds invalidation at row granularity: the server names the row that changed, and the client drops that row and restamps the rest. A2DC and A2DG extend A2D with consumer notification and with propagation along the dependency graph. A2DC is a purely client-side strategy: when the client evicts a row, it notifies downstream consumers that depended on it. No additional server output is required, so A2DC activates the same protocol levels as A2D. A seventh variant, A2DO, replaces the diff channel with a stream of rule declarations and is used only on the policy-rule stream. Table 2 pairs each arm with the server levels it consumes. All arms run with the consumption channel fixed at L3 (§3.4), which subsumes L2. The A-ladder therefore varies the invalidation channel while holding the compliance channel constant. L2 is not isolated in this evaluation because L3 builds on it: every L3 arm in-herits the “merge parameters verbatim” instruction that defines L2. The L2-specific compliance lift was measured in earlier calibration runs. 3

The “Diff” column in Table 2 marks a server mechanism that does not have its own protocol level: the reload endpoint returns row-level diffs (added, removed, changed keys) alongside the version bump. This is not a new field on the regular response wire format; it is an operational refinement of the reload endpoint that makes L1’s version stamps actionable at row granularity. A2 uses only the version stamp and evicts every entry from the affected table. A2D uses the diff to evict only the changed row and restamp the rest. The distinction between A2 and A2D is the client’s strategy for the same server output. A1 against A2 measures what any invalidation is worth, and A2 against A2D measures what precise invalidation is worth. The second comparison is the one this paper turns on: reporting A2 alone would describe a protocol that repairs staleness while billing the client for memory that never went stale. 

> 3The calibration runs that isolated L2 (a +56 pp compliance lift on two Claude models) predate the experiments reported here and are not archived alongside Tables 3–6. 5Michael Wu and Arquimedes Canedo

Table 2: Coverage matrix: experimental arms against protocol levels, grouped by the savings-equation factor each level engineers (Equation 1). ✓ = active in that arm; ( ✓) = exercised only inside a bundled arm, not isolated. All arms shown hold the compliance channel fixed at L2/L3. L1 straddles both factors: its structured format aids compliance, and its version stamps enable invalidation. L0 (raw feedback) has no arm: every configuration in the evaluation emits at least L1. A0 (no memory) consumes no contract field and is the cost baseline of Tables 3 and 6, so it is omitted from the matrix. The A-ladder varies the validity channel; empty cells mark untested combinations.                                        

> Compliance Validity Arm L2 L3 L1 L4 L5 L6 Diff What the arm adds
> A1 ✓✓Memory, no invalidation A2 ✓✓✓Table-granularity stamps A2D ✓✓✓✓+ row-level diffs A2DC ✓✓✓✓+ consumer notification A2DG ✓✓✓(✓)✓✓+ subgraph propagation A2DO ✓✓✓✓✓+ rule-declaration oracle

## 3.6 The Savings Equation 

Realized savings from cross-episode memory decompose into two independent factors as presented in Equation 1. 

Validity. is the contract’s responsibility. A cached suggestion is valid if every table it depends on still has the version the client recorded. Validity is model-independent and vendor-independent: in our experiments, the table_versions check produced identical results across seven models, three serving paths, and all random seeds. The funding-type and negative-control policy columns match cell for cell. 

Compliance. is the model’s responsibility, modulated by the feedback-consumption protocol (Levels 2–3). We observed three regimes: 

• Claude Haiku 4.5: 100% compliance at A2D on the aggregate measure (Table 3), with per-class rates of 90% add-a-field, 75%/58% rewrite-a-value, and 50%/67% conditional-rewrite (Table 7). 

• Claude Sonnet 4.6: 81.5–88.9% aggregate compliance across arms, 4 with per-class rates of 80% add-a-field, 30%/38% rewrite-a-value, and 50%/67% conditional-rewrite. 

• Claude Sonnet 5: 0–11% aggregate compliance. Sonnet 5 applied rewrite-a-value hints at 55–60% and conditional-rewrite hints at 50–67%, but refused add-a-field hints at 10%. 5 We attribute this to input-schema conservatism : the model treats the request schema as fixed and will not add fields the original request did not contain. The factorization in Equation 1 matters because it separates what a contract designer can control (validity, via protocol levels 1 and 4– 6) from what the model vendor controls (compliance, via instruction 

> 4A2 through A2DG in Table 3.
> 5Per-class rates from Table 7 at A2D.

following and schema flexibility). A contract that achieves perfect validity still delivers zero savings if the planner ignores the fix. 

## 3.7 Design Decisions 

Per-table vs. global version stamp. A single global version stamp is simpler but forces the client to flush all cached suggestions when-ever any table changes. Per-table stamps avoid this: a change to 

required_promo_policy does not invalidate a cached funding-type fix. The trade-off is that per-table stamps still over-evict when only some rows within a table changed. The reload endpoint’s struc-tured diff (added/removed/changed keys) addresses this by letting the client do row-level invalidation. 

What the contract costs on the wire. The fields are not free, and the per-table choice above is what they cost. Measured over the 3,387 archived server responses, 2,419 of which carry contract fields, the contract adds a mean of 123 bytes to a mean 817-byte response, or 15.1% of payload; among the responses that carry them, the mean addition is 173 bytes and the maximum observed is 251. The distribution is lopsided. The table_versions envelope accounts for 11.7% of all bytes sent, at a mean of 190 bytes, while the two per-suggestion fields together account for 3.2% ( cache_hint 24 bytes, 

table 28 bytes). Nearly all the overhead is therefore the per-table dictionary, and it grows with the number of tables the server has loaded rather than with the number of suggestions it emits. A global stamp would shrink the envelope to one string and give back most of the 15%, at the over-eviction cost described above; per-table stamps buy precise invalidation with bytes that scale in the size of the reference set. Two scope limits: these are the Level 1 fields, which every arm in the ladder carries, and the figures are gross wire cost. The net token effect of running the contract is already inside the savings in Table 6, which compares each model’s billed usage against its own A0 baseline. 

Two-valued cache hint. We considered a richer taxonomy (“cacheable for N hours,” “cacheable within session”) but found the distinction is binary in practice: either the fix comes from server-side data the model cannot derive from the request alone, or it does not. Time-based expiry adds complexity without value when the server already pushes version stamps on every response. 

Row identity by key, not by value. Billing vocabulary is low-entropy. Multiple reference-table rows may map to the value 

"annual" or "credit" . Matching cached suggestions to table rows by value causes collisions; matching by key (e.g., funding_type_ policy:enterprise_annual ) is unambiguous. 

Explicit graph vs. implicit reconstruction. A client that tracks Level 4 dependency vectors across episodes can reconstruct the same edges the Level 5 graph declares explicitly. Each suggestion’s 

tables list reveals which tables co-participate in a derivation. Over enough episodes, the client builds a partial graph that converges toward the server’s full graph. The two representations carry equiv-alent information for suggestion families the client has observed. The explicit graph adds the families the client has not seen. This matters because of failure-gating (§6.3): a cached family stops pro-ducing errors and stops exposing its dependency vector, so the implicit graph has blind spots exactly where memory works best. 

> 6Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory

The explicit graph fills them. In the evaluation, we measure both to separate their contributions. 

Pre-reload edge walk. The affected_downstream computation must use the knowledge graph as it existed before the reload. After the reload, edges originating from the changed node may have disappeared (because the new data no longer implies those deriva-tions), but the client’s cache still holds suggestions that traversed those edges. The server therefore snapshots the graph, applies the new data, diffs, and then walks the snapshot to find all downstream nodes the client should invalidate. 

## 4 Experimental Setup 

Domains and drift schedule. The primary domain is a payments API with four constraint classes over a 36-episode stream. The governed class needs a promotional code the task input does not carry, so its hint is an add-a-field hint. The funding class needs a payment token selected by a condition on the request, a conditional-rewrite hint. A negative-control class depends on rows no scheduled event touches, and a fourth class carries no constraint. Two events run on a fixed schedule: after episode 11 the code table rotates, which is breaking, so exactly one eviction is correct; after episode 23 the token table takes a benign version bump, where zero evictions and one restamp are correct. The second domain is a recipe API with a four-rung dietary ladder over 48 episodes. It shares the harness, the arms and the scoring, and it supplies the third hint shape, a 

rewrite-a-value hint that replaces an ingredient the task already names. 

Models and serving stacks. Seven models on three serv-ing paths. claude-haiku-4-5 , claude-sonnet-4-6 and 

claude-sonnet-5 are served by Anthropic directly. gpt-5.4-mini 

and deepseek-v4-flash reach their vendors through a third-party API gateway, and gpt-5-mini and gemini-3.5-flash through a translation layer that lets a harness speaking one vendor’s message protocol call two others. Every run opens with a preflight probe that records the requested and the served model identifier: across all 238 archived run artifacts the two agree, with no mismatch and none missing a probe. The model count is not there to rank models. It separates what the protocol does from what any one client happens to do, and the three paths test whether the result survives a change of delivery route. 

Metrics. Compliance is the first-try rate over injection-eligible episodes of the governed class. Eviction precision is the reciprocal of a run’s eviction count. Retries are summed over the stream, and first-try rate is also reported per constraint class. Token counts come from each vendor’s billed usage field. The three serving paths do not bill on a common basis, so token counts are compared only within a model against that model’s own A0 and never across paths. An absolute rate for a model is a rate for its delivery path, and every comparison this paper draws is between arms of one model on one path. 

## 4.1 Measurement Hygiene 

What compliance excludes, and why. The first governed episode after each rotation is a slot in which every memory arm still injects the pre-rotation code, because no arm can know the code changed A0 A1 A2 A2D 020 40 60 80 100 

> First-try (%)
> sonnet-5 deepseek sonnet-4.6 gpt-5.4-mini gpt-5-mini gemini haiku-4.5

Figure 3: The A-ladder on the drifted stream, seven models, three seeds: first-try rate on the governed class. 

until the server says so. A retry there prices staleness rather than non-compliance, and scoring those slots would penalize A1, A2 and A2D for the same event and flatten the differences among them. They are excluded by a fixed episode-index list rather than by inspection of the results. Two choices here move the headline numbers and we state both. Widening the slot boundary by one episode raises A1 compliance. Treating a table rotation as warrant-ing a cleared table, rather than the single changed row the server’s own diff names, would score A2 at 1.00 precision instead of 0.25. Both are fixed by the pre-registered design rather than chosen after the runs. 

An exhausted run can imitate a precise one. Eviction precision divides by the number of evictions a run performs. A run that exhausts its retry budget early never reaches the later drift events, performs fewer evictions, and reports a higher precision than a run that completed. gemini-3.5-flash reports 1.00 at A2 for exactly that reason, and its restamp count reads 0, 0, 1 against a reference of 3 because the episodes carrying the diff observation do not complete. Any evaluation that scores an agent on event counts inherits this hazard, since the broken run looks disciplined. We report event-count metrics next to the number of completed episodes so the denominator stays visible. 

## 5 Results 

The evaluation is 250 arm-level runs over 9,432 episodes, three seeds per drifted cell, seven models, three serving paths and two domains. Table 3 is the grid; Figures 3 and 4 plot the four arms all seven models share. 

Row-Level Invalidation Is the Arm That Pays. Compliance rises from A1 to A2D on five of seven models, by 66.7 points on gpt-5-mini , 63.0 on claude-sonnet-4-6 , 55.6 on claude-haiku-4-5 , 48.2 on gemini-3.5-flash and 11.1 on claude-sonnet-5 . Retries fall with it: over 36 episodes 

claude-haiku-4-5 and gpt-5-mini both go from 27 at A0 to 7 at A2D, and gemini-3.5-flash from 82.7 to 55.0. The ladder then stops paying. Consumer notification and graph propagation move 

> 7Michael Wu and Arquimedes Canedo

Table 3: The A-ladder on the drifted stream, three seeds per cell, row blocks by serving stack. Compliance excludes the stale-injection slots (Section 4.1) and is undefined at A0. Eviction precision is 1.00 at A2D on every model, so only A2 is shown; seed standard deviation never exceeds 18.1 points. Gains of A2D over A1 are in the Δ column , shaded by the unrounded gain; underlined is the best A2D cell in each stack.                                                                                         

> Model Compliance (%) ΔPrec. Post-drift funding (%) A1 A2 A2D A2DC A2DG A2D −A1 A2 A1 A2 A2D
> claude-haiku-4-5 44.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 ↑55.6 0.25 66.7 0.0 66.7
> claude-sonnet-4-6 25.9 81.5 88.9 81.5 88.9 ↑63.0 0.25 66.7 0.0 66.7
> claude-sonnet-5 0.0 3.7 11.1 0.0 3.7 ↑11.1 0.25 66.7 0.0 66.7
> gpt-5.4-mini 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.25 66.7 22.2 66.7
> deepseek-v4-flash 3.7 7.4 3.7 18.5 0.0 0.0 0.31 66.7 66.7 55.6
> gpt-5-mini 33.3 100.0 100.0 ––↑66.7 0.25 66.7 0.0 66.7
> gemini-3.5-flash 29.6 63.0 77.8 ––↑48.2 1.00 0.0 0.0 11.1

A0 A1 A2 A2D 020 40 60 80 100 

> Funding (%)
> sonnet-5 deepseek sonnet-4.6 gpt-5.4-mini gpt-5-mini gemini haiku-4.5

Figure 4: Post-drift first-try on the funding class, which no scheduled event targets. The arm that raises Figure 3 is the arm that empties this one. 

compliance between −11 .1 and +14 .8 points with no consistent sign, and since nine episodes are eligible for the score, one episode is worth 11.1 points and both extremes belong to models within two episodes of a floor or a ceiling. One model reaches 100.0% compliance at A1, before any invalidation exists, so the ladder has nothing left to buy there on the compliance axis; gpt-5.4-mini 

still moves from 0.25 to 1.00 eviction precision and recovers post-drift funding from 22.2% to 66.7%. Compliance and precision are separate purchases, and the model that saturates the first shows it. 

Table-Level Invalidation Bills a Class That Never Drifted. A2 clears an entire table on a version bump. That is correct for the rotated code table and it destroys the funding entry stored beside it. Post-drift funding first-try falls from 66.7% at A1 to 0.0% at A2 and returns to 66.7% at A2D on four of seven models, and a fifth, gpt-5.4-mini ,falls to 22.2% and returns to the same 66.7%; Figure 4 is that collapse and recovery. Eviction precision states the same fact without the client in the loop, at 0.25 for table granularity and exactly 1.00 for row granularity on every model. Two cells carry caveats rather than 

Table 4: First-try rate (%) by constraint class, three seeds per cell: ten governed episodes, three funding episodes after the benign bump, six control episodes no scheduled event touches. A fourth class carries no constraint and reads 100.0 in all fourteen cells, so it is omitted.                                                   

> Model Add-a-field Cond.-rewrite Neg. control A1 A2D A1 A2D A1 A2D
> claude-haiku-4-5 40.0 90.0 66.7 66.7 83.3 83.3
> claude-sonnet-4-6 23.3 80.0 66.7 66.7 83.3 83.3
> claude-sonnet-5 0.0 10.0 66.7 66.7 83.3 83.3
> gpt-5.4-mini 90.0 90.0 66.7 66.7 83.3 83.3
> deepseek-v4-flash 3.3 3.3 66.7 55.6 83.3 83.3
> gpt-5-mini 30.0 90.0 66.7 66.7 83.3 83.3
> gemini-3.5-flash 26.7 70.0 0.0 11.1 44.4 55.6

readings. deepseek-v4-flash evicts three or four times where the others evict four, and the seed that skips an eviction keeps its funding entry, which is why its funding column does not collapse. 

gemini-3.5-flash reads 1.00 precision at A2 for the starvation reason of Section 4.1, not because it evicted well. The same starva-tion keeps its post-drift funding at 0.0% from A0 through A2, with 11.1% at A2D. 

The Untargeted Classes Do Not Move, and Governance Costs When Nothing Drifts. Table 4 carries the controls. All 1,026 no-constraint episodes across the 114 runs of the drifted stream are first-try, at every arm including A0. The negative-control class holds at 83.3% across every memory arm on six of seven models, the ex-ception being the model with a failure tail, and at A0 that same class drops to 0.0% on five models, so memory alone is worth 83.3 points there before any invalidation. The bill for that comes due on the undrifted control stream, where the ladder has noth-ing to invalidate: claude-sonnet-4-6 scores 100.0% compliance at A1 and 54.5% at A2, with A2D at 81.8% and A2DG at 90.9%, while claude-haiku-4-5 and gpt-5.4-mini stay at or near 100.0 throughout. The size of the bill is a property of the client, but it is charged whether or not anything went stale. 

> 8Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory

1 2 3

# Rotations 

020 40 60 80 100   

> Compliance (%)
> sonnet-5 sonnet-4.6 haiku-4.5

Figure 5: Compliance against the number of table rotations packed into one 36-episode budget, A2D solid against A1 dashed, for the three models present in both domains. A0 A1 A2 A2D 

# Arm 

020 40 60 80 100   

> First-try (%)
> sonnet-5 sonnet-4.6 haiku-4.5

Figure 6: First-try rate on the class the drift event targets, payments solid against recipes dashed, one color per model. 

The Gain Holds Across Drift Rate, Domain and Serving Path. Fig-ure 5 runs one, two and three rotations through the same episode budget. claude-haiku-4-5 holds 100.0% compliance at A2D at ev-ery rotation count while its A1 compliance moves between 47.6% and 60.0%, and claude-sonnet-4-6 holds 73.3% to 90.5% at A2D against 28.6% to 55.6% at A1. Retries at A2D stay near 7 and near 9 respectively across all three rates, so the protocol absorbs the added drift without charging for it. The second domain reproduces the direction with a smaller margin, and Figure 6 puts the two side by side: at A2D the class the drift event targets rises 48.3 points over A1 on claude-haiku-4-5 , 35.0 on claude-sonnet-5 and 15.0 on claude-sonnet-4-6 . That figure also separates the client from the domain, since claude-sonnet-5 ends at 10.0% in payments and 55.0% in recipes: the client that opts out of one hint shape climbs the same ladder in the other. A third stream replaces table constraints with a policy rule set, and there the per-episode retry vector is identical position by position across claude-haiku-4-5 ,

Table 5: Detection policies on the rule stream: 36 episodes, one rule edge removed after episode 11, one added after episode 23. Every count is identical on the three models (claude-haiku-4-5 , claude-sonnet-4-6 , claude-sonnet-5 ); the token column is the per-model range against lazy vectors; §6.3 carries the exact per-model values.                            

> Policy First-try Retries Evict Restamp Alert Δtok. (%)
> Lazy ( A2DC )28 82313/25 –Stamp-only ( A2DR )22 14 4+5 012/24 +14.0 to +14.3 Stamp+vec. ( A2DRC )28 82312/24 −0.11 to +0.20 Oracle ( A2DO )27 93312/24 +2.42 to +2.45

Table 6: Token and retry cost on the drifted stream, three seeds per cell, row blocks by serving stack. Saving is mea-sured within a model against its own A0, which is 0.0 by construction. The Δ column is what row granularity adds over naive memory; underlined is the best A2D saving in each stack. Savings are net of the contract’s own wire cost, which is 15.1% of response payload (§3.7).                                                         

> Model Token saving (%) ΔRetries per stream A1 A2D A2D −A1 A0 A1 A2D
> claude-haiku-4-5 22.3 32.5 ↑10.2 27.0 13.0 7.0
> claude-sonnet-4-6 18.6 29.2 ↑10.6 27.0 14.7 8.3
> claude-sonnet-5 5.3 8.7 ↑3.4 32.3 27.7 25.3
> gpt-5.4-mini 28.2 31.0 ↑2.9 24.0 7.0 7.0
> deepseek-v4-flash 7.1 6.0 -1.0 20.0 16.0 16.7
> gpt-5-mini 16.4 32.1 ↑15.7 27.0 14.0 7.0
> gemini-3.5-flash 10.3 22.5 ↑12.2 82.7 68.3 55.0

claude-sonnet-4-6 and claude-sonnet-5 within each arm, at 42 attempts for A2D, 44 for A2DC and 45 for A2DO. The nine artifacts are distinct runs with distinct payloads and token totals spanning 243k to 390k, so the identity is not a duplicated file: on that stream the arm fixes the retry ledger and the choice of model does not move it. Table 5 prices the detection policies on that stream (§6.3). 

What Row Granularity Adds Is Priced by Compliance. Table 6 prices the ladder. On the five models that draw on their memory, naive memory alone recovers 10.3% to 28.2% of a model’s own A0 token cost, so most of the headline saving is bought by holding a memory at all. Row granularity adds 10.2 and 10.6 points on the two compliant Anthropic models, 15.7 on gpt-5-mini and 12.2 on gemini-3.5-flash , and the size of that increment follows the client rather than the protocol: the model with the largest compli-ance gain also has the largest token gain, while claude-sonnet-5 

adds 3.4 points and deepseek-v4-flash loses 1.0, the two clients that decline to draw on what they store. gpt-5.4-mini bounds the rule from the other side, buying 2.9 points more because its compliance and its retry count are both already at the floor at A1. 

Compliance Tracks the Client, Not the Constraint. Two clients opt out. claude-sonnet-5 and deepseek-v4-flash sit near zero compliance at every arm while completing the stream, paying in 

> 9Michael Wu and Arquimedes Canedo

Table 7: First-try rate (%) at A2D by hint shape, both domains, three seeds per cell. Only the opt-out model orders the three shapes; on the two models that use memory the ordering inverts, so no hint shape is intrinsically harder to apply.                       

> Model Add-a-field Rewrite-a-value Cond.-rewrite promo celiac incompat. pre post
> claude-haiku-4-5 90.0 75.0 58.3 50.0 66.7
> claude-sonnet-4-6 80.0 30.0 38.3 50.0 66.7
> claude-sonnet-5 10.0 55.0 60.0 50.0 66.7

re-derivation retries instead of memory. Since savings are the prod-uct of validity and compliance, a client whose compliance is zero returns nothing however precise the invalidation, which is the 8.7% against 32.5% of Table 6. The opt-out is selective rather than general. Table 7 sorts the same runs by the shape of the server’s hint: on claude-sonnet-5 , add-a-field hints are applied 10.0% of the time, rewrite-a-value hints 55.0% and 60.0%, and conditional-rewrite hints 50.0% and 66.7%, the last being the rate the compli-ant models reach. On claude-haiku-4-5 and claude-sonnet-4-6 

the ordering inverts, with add-a-field at 90.0% and 80.0% against conditional-rewrite at 66.7%, so no hint shape is intrinsically harder to apply. Failures are rare and concentrated the same way. Of 9,432 episodes, 159 do not complete and all 159 stop at the fifth attempt; five of the seven models never fail. claude-sonnet-5 accounts for 23, all on the governed class and skewed to one task family, including one at A0, which rules out injected content as the trigger. 

gemini-3.5-flash accounts for the other 136, of which 104 belong to the funding family and 32 to the negative control, and its failure count falls monotonically along the ladder from 41 at A0 to 34, 32 and 29. 

## 6 Discussion 6.1 What the contract can and cannot engineer 

The invalidation contract engineers validity reliably. Across seven models, three serving paths, and all random seeds, the governed pro-tocol maintains perfect eviction precision at A2D. 6 Sonnet 5 holds 1.00 eviction precision while its compliance is zero. It keeps its cache correct and never draws from it. Validity is vendor-independent because it depends only on the server’s version stamp, not on the model’s willingness to act. Compliance is harder to engineer. Row-level invalidation (A2D over A1) is the strongest compliance lever in the experiments re-ported here, raising compliance by 55.6 to 66.7 percentage points on three models. 7 But no protocol level can cross what we call the input-schema conservatism boundary. Sonnet 5 applies rewrite-a-value hints at 55–60% and conditional-rewrite hints at 50–67%, but refuses add-a-field hints at 10%. 8 The cross-class ordering is consistent across arms and seeds. The contract cannot override this decision. It is the model choosing which mutation types to trust. 

> 6Eviction precision is 1.00 at A2D on all seven models (Table 3). At A2 it reads 0.25– 0.31 on six models; the seventh reads 1.00 through the starvation artifact described in Section 4.1.
> 7Table 3: Claude Haiku 4.5 (+55.6 pp), Claude Sonnet 4.6 (+63.0 pp), GPT-5-mini (+66.7 pp).
> 8Per-class rates from Table 7 at A2D.

Practical recommendation. Before investing in a full memory system for a given model, run a compliance preflight . Inject a handful of episodes with known-valid fixes covering each action type the deployment needs. The preflight is cheap (tens of API calls) and reads out the compliance factor directly. If the model refuses the action types that matter, no amount of protocol engineering will help. 

## 6.2 The A0 zero floor 

All three Anthropic models score 0% first-try on the governed class and 0% on funding at A0 (no memory). 9 DeepSeek solves funding tasks at A0 without memory. 10 The task is solvable without memory for some models. This matters for interpreting the memory lift. Memory does not make an impossible task possible. It makes a solvable task cheaper by letting the client skip re-derivation from the server’s recovery feedback. The zero floor is a model property, not a task property. It reflects the model’s ability to extract the answer from the raw API response without any cached context. Evaluations that do not measure A0 cannot distinguish “memory helped” from “the task was already easy.” 

## 6.3 Eager versus lazy detection 

The detection-policy price sheet (Table 5) carries live readings for all four policies on the rule stream, with all three models giving the same counts. Stamp-only detection (checking rules_version on every re-sponse) alerts at the drift episode but disposes by blanket clear, 4 entries at the first rule event and 5 at the second. The re-derivation cost is 22 first-try successes against 14 retries, at 14.0–14.3% more tokens than the lazy arm. The rule-declaration oracle (A2DO) reads 27 first-try successes and 9 retries, with 3 evictions and 3 restamps, at 2.4% more tokens. Stamp-plus-vectors (checking the stamp on every response and comparing cached dependency vectors on failure) reproduces the lazy arm’s disposition episode for episode, 2 evictions and 3 restamps, while alerting at the drift episode rather than one after it. The token difference against the lazy arm is +0.16%, +0.20%, and 

−0.11% across the three models. Vector-only detection gives precision 1.00 but is failure-gated .The better the cached memory works, the fewer failed requests the client observes, and dependency vectors ride only on recovery_ feedback , which appears only on failure. A cached family that stops producing errors stops being observable. Stamp-plus-vectors dominates. The stamp provides zero-lag de-tection on every response, success or failure. The vectors provide surgical disposition, identifying which specific entries are stale. The combined policy keeps the lazy arm’s disposition, alerts one episode earlier, and costs about 0.2% in tokens; next to the oracle it reads one more first-try success at 2.2–2.5% fewer tokens. The protocol should carry both.   

> 9Direct readings: Figures 3 and 4 include A0, and the A0 column of Table 6 shows 27–32 retries per stream on these models. Table 4 reports A1 and A2D only.
> 10 Figure 4: deepseek-v4-flash reads 44.4% post-drift funding at A0. 10 Invalidation Contracts for Cross-Episode Agent Memory

## 6.4 Limitations 

Synthetic APIs. Both evaluation domains (recipe conversion, Acme billing) are authored for this study. The reflective layer that emits cache_hint and recovery_feedback is hand-written in each case. We do not know how the contract transfers to production APIs where the schema is larger, drift is organic, and the reflective layer must be retrofitted. 

Scale. The evaluation covers two domains, seven models, and approximately 9,400 episodes across 250 arm-level runs. Repro-ducibility is strong (all seeds converge), but the domain count limits claims about generality. 

Single-table dependencies. The current protocol (Levels 1–3) tags each suggestion with one source table. Multi-table dependencies (Level 4, dependency vectors) are implemented in the server. The A2DG arm (Table 3) evaluates graph propagation with LLMs in the loop, but the compliance effect of dependency vectors alone (Level 4 without the graph) has not been isolated. 11 

Prompt and task coverage. Compliance is measured with one base prompt per domain and one task family per content class. Prompt sensitivity is plausible but untested. 

Frequency saturation. The naive-governed gap stopped widening at three drift rotations. The pre-registered falsification criterion fired. We predicted the gap would grow monotonically, and it did not. Episode-level decomposition is needed to determine whether the plateau reflects a ceiling effect or an artifact of the rotation schedule. 

## 6.5 Future work 

Five directions follow from the current results. 

Dependency vectors and knowledge subgraphs (L4–L6). The server can emit derivation edges that link each cached suggestion to the schema columns it depends on. The client caches the subgraph and walks edges on invalidation rather than evicting all entries from the affected table. Step zero, stable-key identity, is implemented. The pre-reload edge-walk bug we found during development shows why the server must own the causal structure. The client cannot reconstruct derivation provenance from the payload alone. 

Live API deployment. In a production setting, the drift driver becomes the production drift engine (schema migrations, configu-ration changes). The grid metrics become instrumentation (dash-boards over eviction precision and compliance). The trace-based scoring method fingerprints clients that the API operator does not control. 

Drift-policy discovery from client-side analytics. The invalidation contract provides reactive validity: the client evicts stale entries after the server signals a change. A client that accumulates drift his-tory across many episodes could go further and learn the server’s drift policy . Patterns such as periodic rotations, co-drifting tables, 

> 11 Whether A2DG constitutes a full evaluation of Level 4 is a judgment call; the arm bun-dles graph propagation with row-level diffs, so the marginal compliance contribution of vectors is not separated. The stamp-plus-vectors policy of §6.3 reads dependency vectors without the graph, but at the detection layer and on the rule stream only.

or escalating severity would let the client anticipate invalidity be-fore the version stamp moves. For example, a client that observes three quarterly CSM code rotations could preemptively lower its confidence in cached CSM fixes as the next quarter approaches. This adds a temporal dimension to the validity term in the savings equation: instead of reacting to drift, the client predicts it. 

The contract as an attack surface. Every mechanism in this paper asks the client to trust the server’s account of its own freshness, and we evaluated that account only under an honest server. Three exposures follow, and the first is the one our own results create. The compliance channel is engineered to remove the planner’s discretion: Level 2 instructs the model to merge suggestion pa-rameters verbatim without paraphrasing or omitting fields, and Level 3 presents them as amendments already applied to the input. A suggestion is therefore a parameter-injection channel into the next request, and the two levels that make the contract work are the two that remove the planner’s opportunity to notice. Compli-ance and credulity are the same measurement, and A2D’s 100% on 

claude-haiku-4-5 reads either way. Second, validity is asserted, not verified. A server that never bumps a version pins a stale fix in client memory indefinitely, and the client has no independent evidence a table moved; the same lever run the other way, spuri-ous bumps on every response, forces continuous re-derivation and converts the 29–33% token saving into an equivalent surcharge, which is a cheap denial-of-savings attack against a client that can-not refuse the signal. Third, the Level 5 graph endpoint publishes internal derivation structure, and the table field names server-side tables on every suggestion, so precise invalidation is bought with schema disclosure. Signed version stamps, rate-limited bumps, and a client-side sanity bound on eviction rate would each address part of this. None is implemented here, and a threat model for cross-episode memory is separate work. 

Cross-domain compliance isolation. A recipe-domain run with an Acme-style patch section in the system prompt would confirm whether the feedback-consumption protocol (Level 2) is the com-pliance lever independent of the domain’s payload shape. If compli-ance tracks Level 2 regardless of domain, the protocol is portable. If it tracks domain, the contract needs domain-specific calibration. 

## 7 Conclusion 

The invalidation contract is a protocol-layer artifact that keeps cross-episode memory correct under server-side data drift. Two fields per suggestion (a cacheability hint and a version stamp) plus a structured diff on schema reload give the client enough information to evict stale entries without trial and error. Validity is the cheap half. Across seven models, three serving paths, two domains, and approximately 9,400 episodes, every version-stamp check produced identical results, deterministic by construction and confirmed at scale. Eviction precision reaches 1.00 at row granularity on every model under the row-level oracle of §4.1, while table-level invalidation over-evicts at 0.25 precision and destroys co-located entries that never drifted. The contract costs 15% of response payload, almost all of it the per-table version dictionary. 

> 11

Michael Wu and Arquimedes Canedo 

Compliance is the half that binds. Row-level invalidation raises it by 0 to 66.7 percentage points across the seven models, and by 55.6 to 66.7 on three of them, while two models decline to draw on cached suggestions at all. Identical wire bytes, opposite outcomes. Model recency does not predict which: the newest model tested is the least compliant, refusing fixes that add a field its input schema did not already contain. No protocol level crosses that boundary, and we do not expect one to. The practical consequence is that an API designer can ship the contract without replicating the benchmark, but cannot assume it will pay. A compliance preflight, tens of API calls carrying known-valid fixes, reads out the model factor directly, and it should be run per model and per action type before the memory is trusted to save anything. 

## Acknowledgements 

This work used AI coding assistants (Claude Code, Anthropic) dur-ing implementation and manuscript preparation. Claude Code as-sisted with refactoring policy modules, authoring drift snapshots, implementing the dependency-vector and knowledge-graph ex-tensions (Levels 4–6), and writing the translation proxy used for non-Claude model evaluation. All experimental design decisions, protocol-level definitions, the savings equation, hypothesis regis-tration, and result interpretation were made by the human authors. 

## References 

[1] Anthropic. 2024. The Claude Model Family. https://www.anthropic.com/claude [2] Anthropic. 2025. Model Context Protocol Specification: Tools. [3] Arquimedes Canedo and Chethan Grama. 2026. Self-Reflective APIs: Structure Beats Verbosity for AI Agent Recovery. (2026). arXiv:2606.05037 [4] Xinyun Chen, Maxwell Lin, Nathanael Scharli, and Denny Zhou. 2024. Teaching Large Language Models to Self-Debug. In ICLR .[5] Zehui Chen, Weihua Du, Wenwei Zhang, Kuikun Liu, Jiangning Liu, Miao Zheng, et al. 2023. T-Eval: Evaluating the Tool Utilization Capability Step by Step. (2023). [6] Dekun Dai, Mingwei Liu, Anji Li, Jialun Cao, Yanlin Wang, Chong Wang, Xin Peng, and Zibin Zheng. 2026. FeedbackEval: A Benchmark for Evaluating Large Language Models in Feedback-Driven Code Repair Tasks. (2026). [7] Dieter Fensel, Holger Lausen, Axel Polleres, et al. 2005. Web Service Modeling Ontology (WSMO). W3C Member Submission. [8] Roy T. Fielding. 2008. REST APIs Must Be Hypertext-Driven. [9] Roy T. Fielding, Mark Nottingham, and Julian Reschke. 2014. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1): Caching. RFC 7234. [10] Martin Fowler. 2010. Richardson Maturity Model. [11] Zhibin Gou, Zhihong Shao, Yeyun Gong, Yelong Shen, Yujiu Yang, Nan Duan, and Weizhu Chen. 2024. CRITIC: Large Language Models Can Self-Correct with Tool-Interactive Critiquing. In ICLR .[12] GraphQL Foundation. 2021. GraphQL Specification: Introspection and Error Handling. [13] Jie Huang, Xinyun Chen, Swaroop Mishra, Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Adams Wei Yu, Xinying Song, and Denny Zhou. 2024. Large Language Models Cannot Self-Correct Reasoning Yet. In ICLR .[14] Ryo Kamoi, Sarkar Snigdha Sarathi Das, Nianqi Goyal, Pratyay Gupta, Yusen Li, Frank F. Xu, and Dan Roth. 2024. When Can LLMs Actually Correct Their Own Mistakes? A Critical Survey of Self-Correction of LLMs. Transactions of the ACL 

(2024). [15] Cuong Chi Le, Aashish Yadavally, Son Le-Anh, and Tien N. Nguyen. 2026. Bench-marking Code Improvement with Progressive, Adaptive, and Interactive Feed-back. (2026). [16] Minghao Li, Feifan Song, Bowen Yu, Haiyang Yu, Zhoujun Li, Fei Huang, and Yongbin Li. 2023. API-Bank: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Tool-Augmented LLMs. (2023). [17] Yaobo Liang, Chenfei Wu, Ting Song, Wenshan Wu, Yan Xia, Yu Liu, et al. 2023. TaskMatrix.AI: Completing Tasks by Connecting Foundation Models with Millions of APIs. (2023). [18] Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, et al. 2024. AgentBench: Evaluating LLMs as Agents. In ICLR .[19] Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon, Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, et al. 2023. Self-Refine: Iterative Refinement with Self-Feedback. In NeurIPS .[20] David Martin, Mark Burstein, Jerry Hobbs, et al. 2004. OWL-S: Semantic Markup for Web Services. W3C Member Submission. [21] Gregoire Mialon, Roberto Dessi, Maria Lomeli, Christoforos Nalmpantis, Ram Pa-sunuru, Roberta Raileanu, Baptiste Roziere, Timo Schick, et al. 2023. Augmented Language Models: A Survey. (2023). [22] Mark Nottingham and Erik Wilde. 2016. Problem Details for HTTP APIs. RFC 7807. [23] Mark Nottingham and Erik Wilde. 2023. Problem Details for HTTP APIs. RFC 9457. [24] Theo X. Olausson, Jeevana Priya Inala, Chenglong Wang, Jianfeng Gao, and Armando Solar-Lezama. 2024. Is Self-Repair a Silver Bullet for Code Generation?. In ICLR .[25] OpenAI. 2025. Function Calling. [26] OpenAPI Initiative. 2021. OpenAPI Specification 3.x. [27] Debjit Paul, Mete Ismayilzada, Maxime Peyrard, Beatriz Borber, Antoine Bosse-lut, and Robert West. 2023. REFINER: Reasoning Feedback on Intermediate Representations. (2023). [28] Yujia Qin, Shihao Liang, Yining Ye, Kunlun Zhu, Lan Yan, Yaxi Lu, Yankai Lin, et al. 2023. ToolLLM: Facilitating Large Language Models to Master 16000+ Real-World APIs. (2023). [29] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwarya Gopinath, Karthik Shukla, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Reflexion: Language Agents with Verbal Reinforcement Learning. In NeurIPS .[30] Shyam Sriram, Rahul Pandita, Ganesh Lakshmanan, Ashish Shamraj, and Ripon K. Saha. 2026. Improving LLM-Assisted Secure Code Generation through Retrieval-Augmented-Generation and Multi-Tool Feedback. (2026). [31] Karthik Stechly, Matthew Marquez, and Subbarao Kambhampati. 2023. GPT-4 Doesn’t Know It’s Wrong: An Analysis of Iterative Prompting for Reasoning Problems. In NeurIPS 2023 FMDM Workshop .[32] Karthik Valmeekam, Matthew Marquez, and Subbarao Kambhampati. 2023. Can Large Language Models Really Improve by Self-Critiquing Their Own Plans? (2023). [33] Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi Fan, and Anima Anandkumar. 2023. Voyager: An Open-Ended Embodied Agent with Large Language Models. (2023). [34] John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press. 2024. SWE-agent: Agent-Computer Inter-faces Enable Automated Software Engineering. (2024). [35] John Yang, Akshara Prabhakar, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. InterCode: Standardizing and Benchmarking Interactive Coding with Execution Feedback. In NeurIPS .[36] Yingxuan Yang et al. 2025. A Survey of AI Agent Protocols. (2025). [37] Shuyan Zhou, Frank F. Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, et al. 2024. WebArena: A Realistic Web Environment for Building Autonomous Agents. In ICLR .12