Title: Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2608.00454v1

Published Time: Tue, 04 Aug 2026 00:26:34 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
# Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers 

# Shoma Ansai 

ansai@inet.media.kyoto-u.ac.jp Kyoto University Kyoto, Japan 

# Yasuo Okabe 

okabe@media.kyoto-u.ac.jp Kyoto University Kyoto, Japan 

# Daisuke Kotani 

kotani@media.kyoto-u.ac.jp Kyoto University Kyoto, Japan 

## Abstract 

As Kubernetes clusters grow, the scalability of controllers can be-come a bottleneck for the performance of the system. Distributing the load dynamically across multiple controller instances, however, raises the following two problems, and a controller can therefore be run only as a single instance today. The first problem is the cost of reassignment. A controller retrieves objects on the basis of the Labels attached to them, so in a naive design in which the assigned instance is recorded in a Label on every object, the Labels must be rewritten in proportion to the total number of objects whenever instances are added or removed. The second problem is cache con-sistency. A controller consults only its own cache when it reads an object and never refers to the actual data, so the cache has to be updated explicitly at the time of a reassignment. Furthermore, a controller manages a cache independently for each kind of ob-ject, so cache updates have to be synchronized across the kinds of objects. We propose a method for scaling Kubernetes controllers horizontally that combines lightweight load balancing with cache synchronization. A two-level Hash maps objects to Virtual Nodes, records their identifiers in Labels, and assigns Virtual Nodes to instances by Consistent Hashing. Whenever instances are added or removed, it therefore suffices to update the Label value specified when objects are retrieved, and no Label on an object has to be rewritten. The cache is also locked until the reassignment has com-pleted, which prevents any reference to a stale cache. The version identifier of the data store is used to synchronize the kinds of ob-jects with one another. We implemented the proposed method on Kubernetes and evaluated it: the processing throughput rises with the number of instances, and the time required for reassignment remains within an acceptable range. 

## CCS Concepts 

• Computer systems organization → Client-server architectures .

## Keywords 

scalability, distributed system, reliability 

## 1 Introduction 

Kubernetes is widely used as a platform for managing containerized workloads and services [27]. Its central mechanism is the controller. In the Kubernetes control plane, the current and the desired state of a cluster are represented as a collection of objects; a controller watches these objects and reconciles the current state with the desired one. This mechanism recovers from failures and applies configuration changes automatically, without human intervention. In large-scale clusters, however, the scalability of controllers has become a pressing issue: the number of objects grows, whereas a controller is ordinarily confined to a single active instance, and a single instance may no longer keep pace with the processing load [3]. Several software projects support horizontal scaling [10, 18– 22, 24, 29, 30]. In these projects, however, objects are assigned to the controller instances in advance, so that controllers cannot be scaled out dynamically in response to the current load. To address this limitation, Ebert [3] proposed Controller Sharding, which employs Consistent Hashing to distribute objects across multiple controller instances automatically by attaching the assigned instance to each object as a Label. Two critical problems nevertheless remain before dynamic scaling of controllers can be achieved. The first problem is the cost of reassignment. A controller watches objects and receives notifications of updates to them, selecting the objects to watch by the metadata attached to them, which is called a Label. If the assigned instance is simply stored in a Label and objects are watched on the basis of such Labels, the Labels on all objects must be rewritten whenever instances are added or removed. This rewriting burdens the data store and the API Server in proportion to the number of objects, a cost that may be unacceptable in a large-scale Kubernetes deployment. The second problem is that cache handling demands special consideration during reassignment. A controller instance in Kuber-netes holds a cache of the object data kept in the data store behind the API Server. When the instance accesses an object, it consults this cache alone and issues no query to the API Server; the cache is updated when the API Server notifies the instance of a change to the object. Moreover, each instance maintains a separate cache and operates on objects in parallel for each type of object, which is called a resource. Consequently, the cache update for one resource may have completed while that for another has not, and a controller can therefore process objects on the basis of stale data. Several existing studies preserve consistency during reassign-ment by locking the cache [1, 2, 6, 7, 11–13, 16, 17]. In a Kubernetes controller, however, the watching of objects and the updating of the cache proceed in parallel for each resource, so that state must be synchronized across different resources; these methods therefore cannot be applied as they are. In this paper, we propose a horizontal scaling method for Kuber-netes controllers that solves both problems. For the first problem, we introduce object assignment based on a two-level Hash. Instead of assigning objects directly to con-troller instances, we interpose the concept of Virtual Nodes as an intermediate layer. In the first stage, objects are mapped to a fixed number of Virtual Nodes by the remainder of their hash value; in the second, Virtual Nodes are assigned to instances by a Consistent Hash Ring. When instances are added or removed, only the second-stage mapping is updated, which makes it possible to change the arXiv:2608.00454v1 [cs.DC] 1 Aug 2026 Ansai et al. 

assignment of objects to controllers without rewriting the Labels on the objects. Interposing a fixed number of intermediate parti-tions between objects and nodes is an approach adopted by several distributed systems [1, 2, 9, 16]. Applying it to a controller that holds a cache, however, also requires accounting for how the cache is updated when the assignment changes, and it therefore cannot be adopted as it stands. For the second problem, we introduce a cache update mechanism based on a Barrier. When the object assignment changes, the API Server sends an assignment-change notification to every instance, and each instance, upon receiving it, temporarily blocks cache access to all related objects. The notification carries a Revision, the version identifier of the data store, which serves to synchronize different resources with one another. While access is blocked, the instance removes from its cache the objects of the Virtual Nodes it no longer holds, and Lists only the objects of the newly assigned Virtual Nodes and adds them to the cache. Releasing the block once the cache update has completed prevents access to an incomplete cache or to stale data. We implemented and evaluated these ideas, and showed that the processing throughput increases with the number of instances and that the time required for a reassignment stays within an acceptable range. This study makes the following three contributions. 

• We showed that dynamic horizontal scaling can be achieved without rewriting objects, by means of object assignment based on a two-level Hash and the maintenance of cache consistency through a Barrier mechanism. 

• We implemented the proposed method on Kubernetes and showed that it is feasible as a system that actually works. 

• We confirmed through evaluation that the processing through-put improves with the number of instances and that the overhead incurred by a reassignment stays within an ac-ceptable range. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 defines the model of Kubernetes on which this study is based. Section 3 presents the problems addressed in this study. Section 4 organizes related work. Section 5 describes the design of the proposed method. Section 6 explains the details of the implementation. Section 7 carries out the evaluation, and Section 8 presents the discussion. Finally, Section 9 states the conclusion and future work. 

## 2 Kubernetes Architecture 

This section presents a model of the Kubernetes control plane, which is the part of the Kubernetes architecture on which this study focuses. The discussion in the remainder of the paper builds upon this model. The control plane manages a collection of entities called objects, each of which carries a desired state supplied by the user. It contin-uously monitors the actual state of every object and, whenever that state diverges from the desired state, automatically performs the operations required to bring the former closer to the latter. Through the repetition of this control cycle, the system as a whole converges to the desired state. An object may carry key-value metadata called Labels, which serve as filtering criteria when objects are retrieved. Objects are 

Figure 1: Model of the Kubernetes control plane. 

Figure 2: Operation of a controller. 

classified by type, and each type of object is termed a resource. Objects may also stand in a parent-child relationship, in which a child object is created on the basis of a parent object. The control plane comprises the following three components. 

• API Server 

• Data Store 

• Controller Figure 1 illustrates the model, and each component is described in turn below. The API Server is the entry point through which every access to an object passes. Objects are created, updated, and deleted exclu-sively through the API Server, and no controller ever reaches the data store directly. When a Label is specified at retrieval time, the API Server returns only those objects that carry the Label. The data store holds the actual content of the objects. It is reach-able only from the API Server and is never accessed directly by a controller instance. The data store maintains a system-wide counter called “ Revision ”, which is incremented on every change to the data and thereby establishes the relative order of object states. Figure 2 depicts the operation of a controller. A controller is the entity that watches objects and performs the operations needed to close the gap between the desired state and the actual state; this operation is called Reconcile. For redundancy, several processes of the same controller may be run, and each such process is called a controller instance, abbreviated hereafter to instance where the context permits. Even when multiple instances are running, leader election is ordinarily performed among them, so that only one instance operates actively while the others remain on standby. Every instance runs one or more workers, which carry out Rec-oncile. Each instance also holds a cache that stores the latest state of the objects for which it is responsible. Rather than querying the Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers 

API Server, an instance reads the state of an object from this cache, which reduces the load imposed on the API Server and the data store. Within an instance, a separate cache and a separate set of workers exist for each resource, so that objects are received, cached, and processed in parallel on a per-resource basis. Since the processing of a parent object requires the state of its child object, a worker responsible for one resource may reference not only the cache of its own resource but also the cache of another resource with which it stands in a parent-child relationship. To keep the cache of each instance current, the API Server asyn-chronously notifies instances of changes to objects; this notification mechanism is called Watch. At start-up, an instance first retrieves the current list of the objects for which it is responsible and stores them in its cache, an operation called List. Thereafter, every time the addition, modification, or deletion of an object is notified through Watch, the instance updates its cache accordingly. Both the response to a List and the notifications delivered by Watch carry the Revision in effect at that moment, and Watch is designed to deliver, without loss, every change that occurs after that Revision. Combining List and Watch therefore allows each instance to observe every change to an object without loss. 

## 3 Problems Addressed in This Study 3.1 Introduction of Horizontal Scaling 

As described in Section 2, only one instance of a controller ordi-narily operates actively, even when several instances are running. This study, by contrast, considers making every controller instance operate actively so as to balance the load through horizontal scaling. Each instance is then responsible for the portion of the objects that has been assigned to it. The API Server notifies each instance of the range of objects for which it is responsible, and each instance retrieves from the API Server only those objects. An instance is thereby kept from retrieving objects outside its responsibility and wasting memory and network bandwidth. Controller instances are added, stopped, and may fail dynam-ically. Whenever instances are added or removed, the range of objects for which each instance is responsible must be reconfig-ured; we refer to this procedure as reassignment. Two major problems remain to be solved before such reassign-ment can be realized. 

## 3.2 Problem 1: State Update Load Incurred by Reassignment 

The first is the load imposed on the control plane. As described in Section 2, a controller can obtain from the API Server only the objects that carry a given Label by specifying that Label at retrieval time. If the assigned controller is simply stored in a Label, however, reassignment entails a rewrite operation proportional to the number of affected objects. Every such rewrite passes through the API Server and entails a write to the data store, so that the load on the API Server and the data store grows in proportion to the number of affected objects. In a large-scale system, where the number of objects tends to be enormous, this places a load on the system that cannot be ignored. 

## 3.3 Problem 2: Cache Updates During Reassignment 

The second is the problem of cache updates. When reassignment occurs, each instance must update its cache to match its new set of assigned objects. As described in Section 2, cache updates proceed independently for each resource, and this parallelism gives rise to the following three challenges. 

The Cache Consistency Challenge When reassignment oc-curs, the cache update for each resource proceeds independently, so that even after the update for one resource has completed, the cache of another resource may still remain stale. Because an instance references objects from its own cache, pro-cessing that runs against a stale cache operates on outdated infor-mation. The following scenario illustrates the problem. Consider two resources in a parent-child relationship, both subject to load bal-ancing, where the parent references the child object during its processing. (1) An assignment change occurs because instances are added or removed. (2) The assignment-change processing for the resource of the parent finishes first, and its cache is updated to reflect the new assignment. (3) At this point, the assignment-change processing for the resource of the child has not yet finished, and the cache of the child remains stale. (4) Reconcile runs for the parent and references the child ob-ject. (5) Because the cache of the child is still stale, outdated content is returned, and an inconsistency arises. 

Consistent Assignment of Parent and Child Objects As described in Section 2, processing a parent object requires refer-encing the state of its child object. Were the parent and the child assigned to different instances, the child object would be absent from the cache of the instance responsible for the parent, and the parent could not be processed correctly. Objects in a parent-child relationship must therefore be assigned to the same instance consistently, even across reassignments. 

Handling Consecutive Reassignments The addition or re-moval of instances may occur in a short period of time. If the next notification arrives before the processing of the previous reas-signment has completed, the cache updates interleave, and cache consistency becomes difficult to maintain. If, for example, the completion of the first reassignment were taken to mean that reassignment as a whole had completed, the cache would become accessible while the second reassignment was still incomplete. A mechanism is therefore needed that keeps the cache consistent even when reassignments occur consecutively while a previous one is still being processed. 

## 4 Related Work 

This section summarizes the prior work related to this study. Ansai et al. 

## 4.1 Horizontal Scaling in Distributed Systems 

As prior work on the horizontal scaling of the Kubernetes control plane, several projects have implemented their own approaches for practical Kubernetes controllers. Projects such as Flux CD [21], ExternalDNS [20], cert-manager [19], Ingress-NGINX [24], and Prometheus Operator [30] provide a means of restricting the scope of each controller instance by Namespace or Label Selector. Flux CD, for example, lets the user attach Labels to objects manually through the “ –watch-label-selector ” option, thereby assigning each object to a particular shard. Argo CD [18] shards on a per-cluster basis, each instance being responsible for a set of managed Kubernetes clusters. In KubeVela [29], a master instance attaches a shard-id Label to applications through a Mu-tating Webhook and dispatches the work to slave instances. All of these approaches either require the assignment of objects to be managed manually or depend on a specific object structure, and none of them can therefore scale out dynamically in response to the current load. Knative [22] performs Leader Election per Reconciler and per Bucket, and distributes the work by making each instance respon-sible for a subset of the Buckets. Since every instance neverthe-less watches every object, memory consumption is not distributed, which limits the scalability gain. KEP-5866 [10], a Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal (KEP), pro-poses server-side sharded LIST and WATCH. A client specifies a hash range through the “ shardSelector ” parameter, and the API Server delivers only the events for the objects that fall in that range. The computation of the hash range and the assignment of objects are nevertheless left to the client side, so that nothing guarantees consistent processing across the cluster as a whole. The prior work most directly related to this study is Ebert’s method [3], which distributes objects across multiple controller instances by Consistent Hashing and implements object filtering by means of Label Selectors. Ebert’s method, however, suffers from the two problems discussed in Section 3 when instances are added or removed, and this study proposes a method that solves both of them. 

## 4.2 Two-Level Hashing in Distributed Systems 

The first problem, discussed in Section 3.2, stems from the design that assigns objects directly to instances. For problems of this kind, several distributed systems adopt a design in which a fixed number of intermediate partitions is placed between objects and nodes, and load balancing is carried out by a two-level mapping [2, 9, 16]. In every one of these cases, the mapping from objects to interme-diate partitions is fixed, and only the mapping from intermediate partitions to nodes is updated when nodes are added or removed, which keeps the cost of reassignment low. This design avoids the first problem of Ebert’s method. The second problem, that of cache consistency, discussed in Section 3.3, nevertheless arises in the same way when a two-level Hash structure is applied. 

## 4.3 Data Consistency During Rescaling 

As discussed in Section 3.3, the problem of cache consistency arises when the Kubernetes control plane is scaled horizontally. Compa-rable problems have been treated by several existing distributed systems that handle data consistency during rescaling. In systems that divide data into partitions and place them on nodes, for example, the data must be handed over to the new respon-sible node when nodes are added or removed. Mechanisms have accordingly been designed to transfer data from the old node to the new one when partitions are reassigned [1, 2, 6, 7, 11–13, 16, 17]. Under this design, accesses to the partition concerned are blocked while the data is being transferred. One might suppose that, for the Kubernetes control plane, it would suffice to block access to the cache during reassignment. As discussed in Section 3.3, however, Watch and cache updates are performed in parallel for each resource, so that reassignment may still be in progress for one resource after it has completed and the block has been released for another. State must be synchronized across different resources, and existing approaches therefore cannot be applied as they are. In other systems, the cache is not updated at all during rescal-ing [4, 14, 15]. There, the authoritative data is kept on a backend such as a database, and the node to which a request is dispatched holds only a copy of it as a cache. When nodes are added or re-moved and requests are routed to a new node, a cache miss occurs because the cache does not exist on that node, and the correct data is obtained by re-fetching it from the backend. Since requests are no longer routed to the old node, the problem of referencing a stale cache does not arise either. This approach, however, cannot be used in the Kubernetes con-trol plane. As described in Section 2, an instance references objects from its own cache, so that an object absent from the cache is treated as though it did not exist. Unless the cache is updated explicitly during reassignment, accesses to a stale cache will therefore occur. Existing approaches thus cannot solve the problem of cache consistency in the Kubernetes control plane. 

## 5 Proposed Method 

This section describes the horizontal scaling method proposed in this study. Section 5.1 gives an overview of the proposal, and Sec-tion 5.2 introduces the concept of a Watch Group. Section 5.3 then presents the design of the two-level Hash, which forms the core of the proposal. Section 5.4 describes the management of Virtual Node assignment in detail, and Section 5.5 finally explains how the Barrier mechanism maintains cache consistency. 

## 5.1 Overview of the Proposal 

The proposed method rests on the following two ideas. 

• Object assignment based on a two-level Hash: Instead of assigning objects directly to controller instances, we interpose the concept of Virtual Nodes between the two (Figure 3). In the first stage, objects are mapped to a fixed number of Virtual Nodes by the remainder of their hash value; in the second, Virtual Nodes are assigned to controller instances by a Consistent Hash Ring [8]. Since only the second stage is updated when instances are added Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers 

Figure 3: Object assignment by a two-level Hash. 

or removed, the amount of recomputation is constant and independent of the number of objects. 

• Cache updates by a Barrier mechanism when instances are added or removed: When the assignment of objects changes, each instance temporarily blocks cache access to all related objects. The Revision provided by the data store serves to synchronize different resources with one another. The instance then Lists only the objects of the newly assigned Virtual Nodes and adds them to its cache. Releasing the block once the List has completed prevents access to an incomplete cache. 

5.1.1 Operation Flow in the Steady State. In the steady state, the method operates as follows. When an object is written, the API Server computes the Virtual Node number to which the object belongs and attaches it to the object as a Label. Each instance retrieves from the API Server the list of the Virtual Nodes assigned to it and, on the basis of this list, specifies a Label so as to List and Watch only the objects that belong to the Virtual Nodes for which it is responsible. The instance stores the objects it receives in its own cache, up-dates the cache whenever a change notification arrives, and reads from that cache in all processing that references an object. 

5.1.2 Operation Flow During Rescaling. When instances are added or removed, reassignment proceeds as follows. The API Server first detects the addition or the removal, recom-putes the Consistent Hash Ring of the two-level Hash, and notifies each instance of its new Virtual Node assignment. Upon receiv-ing the notification, each instance temporarily blocks cache access through the Barrier mechanism, Lists the objects of the Virtual Nodes for which it has newly become responsible, and adds them to its cache. Once the List has completed, the instance releases the block and returns to normal operation. 

## 5.2 The Watch Group Concept 

A Watch Group is a set of controller instances that share the re-sponsibility for reconciling objects. The group is identified by a name called “ watchGroup ”, and each instance carries an identifier called “ memberID ” that identifies it uniquely within the group. If, for example, three instances named “ worker-a ”, “ worker-b ”, and “ worker-c ” belong to a Watch Group named “ parent-workers ”, the Parent objects as a whole are distributed among these three instances without overlap. In the proposed method, an instance is registered as a member of the Watch Group when it establishes a Watch connection to the API Server, and the registration of that instance is removed auto-matically when the connection is broken. The membership of the group is thereby kept up to date without any explicit deregistration step. 

## 5.3 Object Distribution by a Two-Level Hash 

As the algorithm for distributing objects across the instances of a Watch Group, this proposal adopts Consistent Hashing [8]. Consis-tent Hashing has the property of minimizing the number of objects affected when instances are added or removed, and it is widely used in distributed caches and distributed databases, beginning with Dynamo by DeCandia et al. [2]. A configuration that assigns objects directly to instances by a single Consistent Hash Ring cannot, however, be applied to the Kubernetes control plane as it stands. Under such a configuration, the information about the responsible instance would be written directly into the Label of the object, so that the Labels of every object whose owner had changed would have to be rewritten whenever instances were added or removed. This would reproduce Problem 1 discussed in Section 3.2. The proposal therefore interposes Virtual Nodes as an intermediate layer between objects and instances, and splits the Hash into two stages. 

5.3.1 Structure of the Two-Level Hash. The Hash is applied in two stages. In the first stage, an object is mapped to a Virtual Node by the remainder of its hash value modulo the fixed number 𝑉 of Virtual Nodes. 𝑉 is determined before the system starts operating and does not change as instances are added or removed, so that the first-stage mapping remains constant throughout the lifetime of the system. In the second stage, a Consistent Hash Ring maps Virtual Nodes to instances, and only this ring is updated when instances are added or removed. The instance responsible for a given object is determined by the following equation. Owner (object ) = ConsistentHash (hash (objectKey ) mod 𝑉 )

When instances are added or removed, ownership has to be recomputed only for the 𝑉 Virtual Nodes. Since 𝑉 is a constant independent of the number of objects 𝑀 , the cost of recomputation is 𝑂 (𝑉 ), that is, a fixed cost that does not depend on the number of objects. Furthermore, because the Label of an object holds its Virtual Node number and the first-stage mapping is constant, no Label on any object ever has to be rewritten when instances are added or removed. This resolves Problem 1 discussed in Section 3.2. 

## 5.4 Management of Object Assignment 

This section explains how objects are assigned by means of the two-level Hash. 

5.4.1 Filtering Mechanism. When an object subject to load balanc-ing is written, the API Server computes the Virtual Node number to which the object belongs on the basis of the first-stage modular hash and attaches it to the object as a Label. Since the first-stage mapping is constant, the Virtual Node number of an object does not change throughout the lifetime of the object. Ansai et al. 

Algorithm 1: Instance processing on Virtual Node assign-ment change 

Input: newVNs : list of newly assigned Virtual Nodes, 

revision : Revision of the assignment change  

> 1

Function OnVNAssignmentChange (newVNs, revision) : 

> 2

StopWatch() ; 

> 3

addedVNs ← newVNs \ pastVirtualNodes ; 

> 4

if addedVNs ≠ ∅ then  

> 5

labelFilter ← "vn ∈ addedVNs" ; 

> 6

List( labelFilter ); // List only objects of newly added VNs  

> 7

end  

> 8

pastVirtualNodes ← newVNs ; 

> 9

labelFilter ← "vn ∈ newVNs" ; 

> 10

StartWatch( labelFilter );The API Server may be run with multiple replicas for load balanc-ing and high availability. Were each replica to hold the membership state independently, the state would diverge across replicas and inconsistencies could arise in the assignment of objects. In this proposal, the membership of a group is therefore stored in the data store, so that every replica refers to the same membership state. Each API Server replica watches the membership state in the data store, and each instance watches, through the API Server, the list of the Virtual Nodes for which it is responsible. When the API Server detects a change in membership, it recomputes the list of the Virtual Nodes assigned to each instance from the second-stage Consistent Hash Ring and notifies every instance whose assignment has changed of its new assignment. The hash function used for the Consistent Hash Ring is deterministic, that is, its output for a given input string is always the same, regardless of the environment or the process. This ensures that every API Server replica builds an identical Hash Ring. Upon receiving a notification of a change in its Virtual Node assignment, an instance first stops the Watch currently in progress. Since the instance keeps the previous list of Virtual Nodes as “ past VirtualNodes ”, it can compare that list with the new assignment and List the newly assigned objects. Once the List has completed, it resumes the Watch with a Label based on the list of Virtual Nodes it has received. Algorithm 1 presents this procedure as pseudocode. If another assignment-change notification arrives before the List has completed, the instance waits for the current List to complete and for “ pastVirtualNodes ” to be updated before it Lists again. Events are thereby handled correctly even when the addition or removal of instances occurs in a short period of time. To prevent Reconcile from running on objects that remain in the WorkQueue but are no longer the responsibility of the instance, each instance checks before running Reconcile whether the Virtual Node associated with the object is assigned to itself, and skips Reconcile if it is not. Algorithm 2 presents this check. 

5.4.2 Assigning Parent and Child Objects to the Same Instance. As described in Section 3.3, objects in a parent-child relationship must be assigned to the same instance. 

Algorithm 2: Virtual Node assignment check before Rec-oncile  

> 1

Function ProcessItem( object ): 

> 2

vn ← VNLabelOf( object ); 

> 3

if vn ∉ assignedVNs then  

> 4

return  

> 5

end  

> 6

Reconcile( object );To solve this problem, the proposal provides a mechanism by which the value passed to the first-stage hash function, the Hash Key, can be specified through the Label of the object. Setting this value identically on objects that stand in a parent-child relationship maps them to the same Virtual Node in the first stage and thereby assigns them to the same instance. 

## 5.5 Maintaining Cache Consistency through the Barrier Mechanism 

This section describes the Barrier mechanism, which solves the challenge of updating the cache at reassignment discussed in Sec-tion 3.3. 

5.5.1 Overview of the Barrier Mechanism. In this proposal, Reads on the objects subject to load balancing are blocked the moment a change in Virtual Node assignment is detected, which prevents Reconcile from accessing a stale cache. Only the objects of the newly assigned Virtual Nodes are then Listed with a Label and added to the cache, so that the target of the List at reassignment is limited to the objects of the new Virtual Nodes rather than the total number of objects. The block is released once the result of the List is reflected in the cache. This procedure guarantees that Reconcile always references a cache that corresponds to the new assignment. 

5.5.2 Blocking Dependent Resources. The Barrier mechanism blocks Gets not only on the resource that received the assignment-change notification but also on the resources that depend on it. What a de-pendency between resources means, and why dependent resources have to be blocked, is explained below. That resource A depends on resource B means that the processing of an object of A requires referencing an object of B. The parent and child objects described in Section 5.4.2 are a typical example: since the child object is referenced while the parent object is processed, the resource of the parent depends on the resource of the child. As described in Section 3.3, the processing of a change in Virtual Node assignment is carried out independently for each resource, so that the timing of the processing differs between resources and an inconsistency occurs because the cache of a dependent resource remains stale. Were the Barrier mechanism to block only the Gets of the resource that received the assignment-change notification, the Gets of the dependent resource would remain unblocked, and this inconsistency could not be prevented. To forestall this problem, the moment an assignment-change notification is received for some resource, Gets are blocked not only for that resource itself but also for every resource on which it depends. A Get on the child that is called during the Reconcile of Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers 

Algorithm 3: Block management in the Barrier mechanism via “ pendingRVs ” 

> 1

Function NotifyBarrier( resource, revision ): 

> 2

pendingRVs [resource ] ← 

pendingRVs [resource ] ∪ { revision }; 

> 3

foreach dep ∈ Dependencies (resource ) do  

> 4

pendingRVs [dep ] ← pendingRVs [dep ] ∪ { revision }; 

> 5

end  

> 6

Function NotifyBarrierComplete( resource, revision ): 

> 7

foreach 𝑟 ∈ pendingRVs [resource ] do  

> 8

if 𝑟 ≤ revision then  

> 9

pendingRVs [resource ] ← 

pendingRVs [resource ] \ { 𝑟 }; 

> 10

end  

> 11

end 

the parent is thereby blocked even before the assignment-change notification for the resource of the child has arrived. The block on each resource is released once the List for that resource itself has completed. 

5.5.3 Handling Consecutive Reassignments with the Revision. As described in Section 3.3, when the addition or removal of instances occurs in a short period of time, the next assignment change may arrive before the result of the first List has been written into the cache in full. Were the block released as soon as the first assignment change completed, Reconcile would reference an incomplete cache that did not reflect the second one. To cope with this problem, every Virtual Node assignment-change event carries, as its ID, the Revision at the moment the membership changed. A Revision is a unique integer that increases monotonically across the entire data store, and the same value is guaranteed on all replicas. The Barrier mechanism uses this Revision to manage the start and the release of the block. Each resource holds, as “ pendingRVs ”, the set of the Revisions whose assignment change is being pro-cessed. When an assignment-change notification is received, its Revision is added to “ pendingRVs ”; when a List completes, every entry whose Revision is at most the completed one is removed from “ pendingRVs ”. Entries below the completed Revision are re-moved as well, and not merely the completed Revision itself, in order to prevent past Revisions from remaining in “ pendingRVs ”indefinitely should a List or a Watch fail for some reason. The block is in effect while “ pendingRVs ” is non-empty and is released once the set becomes empty. Algorithm 3 presents the processing on the Barrier side as pseu-docode. This mechanism also copes with consecutive assignment changes. When, for example, an assignment change with Revision 𝑅 1 ar-rives, pendingRVs = {𝑅 1 } and the block starts. If another change with a larger Revision 𝑅 2 arrives while the List is in progress, 

pendingRVs = {𝑅 1, 𝑅 2 }. When the List for 𝑅 1 completes, 𝑅 1 is re-moved and pendingRVs = {𝑅 2 }, but the block continues because the set is still non-empty. When the List for 𝑅 2 completes, 𝑅 2 is 

Figure 4: Operation of client-go and controller-runtime. 

removed as well, pendingRVs = ∅, and the block is released at this point. Even when assignment changes occur consecutively, it is thus guaranteed that Reconcile is always given a cache that corresponds to the latest assignment. 

## 6 Implementation 

This section describes the implementation of the method proposed in Section 5. For this study, we forked Kubernetes and controller-runtime separately and carried out the development on those forks. The prerequisite knowledge needed to understand the implementa-tion is explained first, and the details of the implementation follow. 

## 6.1 Prerequisite Knowledge 

A controller instance in the model of Section 2 corresponds to a Controller Pod, a Pod being the unit of container execution in Kubernetes. We used etcd [5] as the data store, which is one imple-mentation of the data store that Kubernetes adopts by default. The filtering of objects through the Label mechanism is called a Label Selector. Two libraries, client-go and controller-runtime, are widely used to implement Kubernetes controllers, and Figure 4 shows how they operate. client-go [23] is the official Go client library for interacting with the Kubernetes API. It provides a mechanism that notifies changes to objects in real time while minimizing the queries issued to the API Server. Its main components are the Reflector, the RealFIFO, the Informer, and the Indexer, one instance of each being created per resource. The Reflector establishes a Watch connection with the API Server and receives change events continuously. The events it receives are passed to the RealFIFO and processed in order. When the same Controller Pod watches multiple resources, a separate Reflector es-tablishes a Watch connection with the API Server for each resource. The RealFIFO is a queue that conveys events from the Reflector to the Informer. The Informer dequeues events from the RealFIFO, notifies the Indexer of the changes, and delivers the events to event handlers as well. The Indexer is an in-memory cache that stores the latest state of the objects, and it corresponds to the cache held by a controller instance in the model. A controller reads the state of an object from the Indexer rather than querying the API Server directly, which Ansai et al. 

Table 1: client-go Feature Gate settings. 

Feature Gate State “AtomicFIFO ” true “InOrderInformers ” true eliminates redundant API calls and reduces the load on the API Server. controller-runtime [28] is a framework built on top of client-go that abstracts the configuration of Informers and the manage-ment of the Reconcile loop. A controller developer need only de-clare the objects to watch and their relationships, for example by “For(Parent).Owns(Child) ”, and the Informers required are con-figured automatically. In this study, we build the dependency graph of resources from this declaration. In controller-runtime, a call to the Get or the List method reads from the in-memory cache of client-go, and no access to the API Server occurs. 

## 6.2 Implementation Target 

We forked Kubernetes and controller-runtime separately for devel-opment, and the fork of Kubernetes includes both the API Server and client-go. Kubernetes [25] was forked from commit “ 6e753bd ”, and controller-runtime [28] was forked from commit “ 6210f84 ”. client-go has feature flags called Feature Gates, which toggle new features on and off. Table 1 shows the Feature Gate settings used in the evaluation environment of this study, and the purpose of each Feature Gate is described in the relevant section. 

## 6.3 API Server Implementation 

6.3.1 Choice of Hash Function. We adopted CRC32 as the hash function. CRC32 is deterministic, that is, its output for a given input string is always the same, regardless of the environment or the process. This determinism guarantees that the same hash value is computed for the same input even on a different process or a different machine. In the second-stage Consistent Hash Ring, moreover, each in-stance is placed on the ring as multiple replicas, an approach in-spired by DeCandia et al. [2]. A uniform load distribution is thereby achieved even when the number of instances is small. 

6.3.2 Opt-In of the Virtual Node Label and the Hash Key. We im-plemented the system in such a way that the objects subject to load balancing opt in explicitly through an Annotation. There are two ways to opt in. The first is to set the “ loadbalance.k8s. io/loadbalanced ” Annotation to “ true ”. The second is to set the “ loadbalance.k8s.io/hash-key ” Annotation to an arbitrary Hash Key. The latter serves both as the opt-in and as the means of specifying the Hash Key that assigns parent and child objects to the same Pod, as described in Section 5. The attachment of the Virtual Node Label to an object is imple-mented as a Mutating Admission Webhook as a proof of concept. When a request to create or to update an object reaches the API Server, the webhook performs the opt-in check and attaches the Virtual Node number computed from the first-stage modular hash to the object as the “ loadbalance.k8s.io/vn ” Label. The number of Virtual Nodes is fixed at 200. This value is deter-mined before the system starts and is not changed during operation. 

6.3.3 Virtual Node Assignment Delivery Endpoint. To deliver Vir-tual Node assignments to each Controller Pod, we added a “ /virtual nodeslices ” endpoint to the API Server. A Controller Pod connects to this endpoint over HTTP, specifying the Watch Group name and the memberID as query parameters. 

GET /virtualnodeslices ?group=parent-controllers &member_id=pod-a &watch=true 

The API Server delivers events as a JSON stream. Each event contains the memberID, the etcd Revision, and the array of the Virtual Node numbers assigned to that instance. 

{"type": "REBALANCE", "object": { "apiVersion": "loadbalance.k8s.io/v1", "kind": "VirtualNodeSlice", "metadata": { "name": "pod-a", "resourceVersion": "12345" }, "spec": { "group": "parent-controllers", "memberID": "pod-a", "vns": [0, 5, 10, 15, 20] }}}

The “ metadata.resourceVersion ” field stores the etcd Revi-sion. This value is used as the ID for the start and the release of the block in the Barrier mechanism described in Section 5. 

6.3.4 Storing Member Entries in etcd. A member entry is stored in etcd under the key “ /watchgroups/{groupName}/{memberID} ”. If, for example, the Watch Group name is “ parent-controllers ”and the memberID is “ pod-a ”, the key is “ /watchgroups/parent-controllers/pod-a ”. A member entry is held as a single cluster-wide registration rather than one registration per resource. This design was chosen because the Barrier mechanism uses the etcd Revision to manage the block across all resources collectively: since a change in membership is notified with the same etcd Revision regardless of the resource, the Reflectors of different resources can List and release their blocks on the basis of the same Revision. A member entry is written together with an etcd Lease [26] whose TTL is 30 seconds. Under normal operation, the API Server revokes the Lease as soon as the Watch connection is broken, with-out waiting for the 30-second TTL to elapse. Should the API Server fail to perform the revocation for some reason, etcd nevertheless deletes the entry automatically once the TTL has elapsed. Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers 

Table 2: Properties of the “ Rebalanced ” event. 

Property Meaning “ResourceVersion ” etcd Revision at the time of the mem-bership update “AddedObjects ” Objects newly retrieved by List “VNs ” List of Virtual Node assignments 

## 6.4 client-go Implementation 

6.4.1 Reflector Implementation. We added to the Reflector of client-go a mechanism that watches the “ /virtualnodeslices ” endpoint. Each Reflector receives its own Virtual Node assignment from the API Server and attaches a Label Selector based on the Vir-tual Node numbers to its List and Watch requests. If, for example, the Virtual Nodes 0, 5, and 10 are assigned, the Label Selector “loadbalance.k8s.io/vn in (0,5,10) ” is specified. To convey the result of the processing of an assignment change, we defined a new “ Rebalanced ” event dedicated to rebalancing. Ta-ble 2 shows the properties that the “ Rebalanced ” event carries. The Reflector delivers this event to the Informer through the RealFIFO. The Reflector keeps the set of the Virtual Node numbers for which the List has completed, and it performs the following pro-cedure when it receives a notification of a change in Virtual Node assignment. (1) Notify controller-runtime that a change in Virtual Node assignment has been received. (2) Stop the current Watch. (3) Compare the Virtual Nodes listed previously with the cur-rent Virtual Node assignment to identify the newly added Virtual Nodes. (4) List, with a Label Selector, only the objects of the newly added Virtual Nodes. (5) Add a “ Rebalanced ” event to the queue. (6) Resume the Watch with the new Label Selector. If the List fails, the procedure starts over from the initial List. As mentioned in Section 6.1, one Reflector is created per resource. Owing to implementation constraints, when the same controller watches multiple resources, a separate Reflector for each resource watches the same “ /virtualnodeslices ” endpoint. 

6.4.2 Informer Implementation. Upon receiving a “ Rebalanced ”event, the Informer performs the following processing. (1) Convey the new list of Virtual Nodes to the Indexer. (2) Add the newly retrieved objects to the Indexer. (3) Remove the objects of the Virtual Nodes that are no longer in the assignment. (4) Update the “ resourceVersion ” recorded in the Indexer. (5) Notify the Barrier mechanism of controller-runtime of the etcd Revision to signal that the List has completed. The Barrier mechanism uses this Revision to decide when to release the block. 

6.4.3 Managing the Virtual Node List in the Indexer. We added dedicated storage to the Indexer for managing the list of Virtual Nodes. 

Table 3: Physical machines used.      

> Machine CPU ua Intel Xeon Silver 4116 (12C/24T ×2) lh AMD EPYC 7452 (32C/64T) gz Intel(R) Xeon(R) 6746E

Table 4: VM configuration.                         

> Node Count Host vCPU Memory etcd 1ua 816GB master1–3 3ua 816GB worker1–3 3ua 12 32GB worker5–7 3lh 12 32GB worker8 1gz 100 32GB

## 6.5 controller-runtime Implementation 

As mentioned in Section 6.1, the relationships among objects are declared in controller-runtime when a controller is constructed, for example by “ For(Parent).Owns(Child) ”. We built a dependency graph of resources from this declaration. For the Barrier mechanism, we implemented a Barrier Manager in controller-runtime and managed the set of pending Revisions for each resource. In addition, we added to controller-runtime a check, performed before Reconcile is invoked, that verifies whether the Virtual Node of the object is assigned to the instance itself. 

## 7 Evaluation 

This section describes the evaluation of the proposed method. 

## 7.1 Evaluation Environment 

The environment used for the evaluation experiments is described first. The experiments were run on the physical machines shown in Table 3. On these physical machines we built virtual machines and a Kubernetes cluster with the configuration shown in Table 4. Only the controller under evaluation was placed on worker8, and the other components were placed on worker1 through worker7. 

## 7.2 Basic Evaluation 

In the basic evaluation, we assessed the performance of the pro-posed method with a simple Kubernetes controller built for the purpose. The components used in the evaluation are described first, and two experiments and their results follow. 

7.2.1 Evaluation Components. The basic evaluation uses the fol-lowing three components. 

• Sample Controller 

• Experiment Operator 

• Parent Scraper The Sample Controller is the controller under evaluation. It is a simple Kubernetes controller that watches Parent objects and creates one corresponding Child object during the Reconcile of each Parent object, and it runs load balanced by the proposed method. A Gate object makes it possible to stop and to resume the creation of Child objects at any time. So that the load of the other components Ansai et al. 

should not affect the measurements, the Sample Controller alone was placed on worker8. The Experiment Operator is an operator that accepts an object of the ParentCreation custom resource and creates the specified number of Parent objects at once. It was placed on worker1 through worker7. The Parent Scraper is a component that monitors the state of Child object creation for all Parent objects. It exposes as Prometheus metrics the total number of Parent objects and the number of Parent objects whose corresponding Child object has been created, and it serves to determine when all Child objects have been created. For load balancing, it ran distributed over five replicas by the proposed method. It was placed on worker1 through worker7. 

7.2.2 Experiment 1: Relationship between Pod Count and Recon-cile Throughput. We first measured how the Reconcile throughput changes as the number of Sample Controller Pods varies. The cluster was built with the number of Virtual Nodes set to 1,000. The internal concurrency of each Pod was set to 5, which means that five workers, as described in Section 2, run on each Pod. The concurrency was set to 5 because many standard Kubernetes con-trollers use a default concurrency of 5. The scenario of the experiment is as follows. (1) Set the number of Sample Controller replicas to a specified value. (2) Instruct the Experiment Operator to create 100,000 Parent objects. (3) Wait for the creation of the Parent objects to complete while the Gate is closed. (4) Open the Gate to start the processing of the Sample Con-troller. (5) Measure the time until the Child objects for all the Parent objects have been created. We varied the number of Sample Controller replicas from 1 to 9 and performed three runs for each setting. Figure 5 shows the result. The horizontal axis is the number of Sample Controller Pods, and the vertical axis is the Reconcile throughput in objects per second. The Reconcile throughput im-proves as the Pod count grows, which confirms that the horizontal scaling by the proposed method works effectively. The variation in performance across the runs is due to the char-acteristics of the Consistent Hash Ring. 

7.2.3 Experiment 2: Relationship between the Number of Virtual Nodes and the Reassignment Duration. Next, we measured the time required, when a member entry changes, from the change in mem-bership to the completion of the block of the Barrier mechanism. The scenario of the experiment is as follows. (1) Set the number of Sample Controller replicas to 1. (2) Create 10,000 Parent objects and wait for all the Child ob-jects to be created. (3) Repeat the registration and the deregistration of the mem-ber entry 100 times at 30-second intervals. (4) For each switch, measure the reassignment duration, that is, the time from the change in membership to the end of the Barrier block, and take the average over the 100 trials. 

Figure 5: Relationship between Pod count and Reconcile throughput. 

Figure 6: Relationship between the number of Virtual Nodes and the reassignment duration. The number of objects is 10,000. 

The experiment was carried out with the number of Virtual Nodes varied over 100, 1,000, 10,000, and 100,000. Figure 6 shows the result. The horizontal axis is the number of Virtual Nodes on a logarithmic scale, and the vertical axis is the average reassignment duration in seconds. The duration tends to increase once the number of Virtual Nodes reaches 10,000 or more, but it stays around 0.5 seconds when the number of Virtual Nodes is between 100 and 1,000. Since the Reconcile of a Kubernetes controller does not demand immediate responsiveness, this duration is within an acceptable range. 

## 8 Discussion 

This section clarifies what the proposed method can and cannot achieve. In the proposed method, accesses to the cache are blocked from the moment a reassignment occurs until the cache update has com-pleted, which eliminates the problem of accessing a stale cache that conventional approaches suffer from. Cache-Consistent Dynamic Load Balancing for Kubernetes Controllers 

The following problems, on the other hand, are not addressed by this study. The first problem is that the same object can momentarily be assigned to several instances during a reassignment. The moments at which different instances receive the assignment-change notifi-cation differ by a few milliseconds. If one instance completes the reassignment before another instance has received the notification, the same object is temporarily managed by several instances, and the cluster may temporarily enter an unintended state if Reconcile is called for that object at the same time. Controller developers need to write their programs with this in mind. Since the Kubernetes control plane assumes eventual consistency and is designed so that convergence to the desired state over time suffices, entering an unintended state temporarily is not a major problem. The second problem is that a Get on an object that is not assigned to the controller does not return the correct result. This problem is common to the existing approaches as well [3, 10, 18–22, 24, 29, 30]. In the proposed method, an object that is not assigned to the instance itself does not enter the cache, while an instance consults only its own cache on a Get and sends no request to the API Server. The problem arises for these reasons. Controller developers therefore need to write their programs with care, so that the objects an instance needs to reference are assigned to it correctly. 

## 9 Conclusion 

In this study, we solved the two problems from which Ebert’s method [3] for the horizontal scaling of the Kubernetes control plane suffered. The first problem was that the reassignment of ob-jects incurred Label rewrites on the API Server and the data store in proportion to the number of affected objects. For this problem, we introduced object assignment based on a two-level Hash. By designing the Label of an object to hold its Virtual Node number rather than the information about the responsible instance, and by keeping the first-stage mapping constant throughout the lifetime of the system, we eliminated Label rewrites on objects entirely when instances are added or removed. The second problem was that, because Watch and Reconcile are performed in parallel for each resource, accesses to a stale cache could occur when objects were reassigned. For this problem, we introduced the Barrier mechanism, which, the moment a reassignment is detected, temporarily blocks cache accesses to the resource concerned and to the resources that depend on it, Lists only the objects of the newly assigned Virtual Nodes and adds them to the cache, and then releases the block. Reconcile is thereby guaranteed always to reference a cache that corresponds to the new assignment. We also forked Kubernetes itself and controller-runtime, and implemented the proposed method. In the basic evaluation, we conducted two experiments with a Sample Controller built for the purpose. The first experiment confirmed that the Reconcile throughput improves as the number of instances increases. The second confirmed that the reassignment duration stays around 0.5 seconds as long as the number of Virtual Nodes is between 100 and 1,000. As a direction for future work, we plan to propose this method officially as a Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal (KEP). Since the method requires modifications to Kubernetes itself and to controller-runtime, it is desirable for the feature to be built into Kubernetes by default so that every controller developer can use it easily. We will therefore propose this method as a KEP and aim for it to become a standard feature of Kubernetes. 

## Acknowledgments 

Claude codes was utilized to generate codes and texts based on the authors’ ideas with interactive feedback with the authors. Final version of this paper was reviewed and edited by the authors. 

## References 

[1] Muthukaruppan Annamalai, Kaushik Ravichandran, Harish Srinivas, Igor Zinkovsky, Luning Pan, Tony Savor, David Nagle, and Michael Stumm. 2018. Sharding the Shards: Managing Datastore Locality at Scale with Akkio. In 13th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI ’18) .USENIX Association, 445–460. [2] Giuseppe DeCandia, Deniz Hastorun, Madan Jampani, Gunavardhan Kakulapati, Avinash Lakshman, Alex Pilchin, Swaminathan Sivasubramanian, Peter Vosshall, and Werner Vogels. 2007. Dynamo: Amazon’s Highly Available Key-value Store. In Proceedings of the 21st ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP ’07) . ACM, 205–220. doi:10.1145/1294261.1294281 [3] Tim Ebert. 2024. Horizontally Scalable Kubernetes Controllers . Master’s the-sis. DHBW Center for Advanced Studies. Available from https://github.com/ timebertt/masters-thesis-controller-sharding. [4] Daniel E. Eisenbud, Cheng Yi, Carlo Contavalli, Cody Smith, Roman Kononov, Eric Mann-Hielscher, Ardas Cilingiroglu, Bin Cheyney, Wentao Shang, and Jinnah Dylan Hosein. 2016. Maglev: A Fast and Reliable Software Network Load Balancer. In 13th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI ’16) . USENIX Association, 523–535. [5] etcd Authors. 2024. etcd - A distributed, reliable key-value store. https://etcd.io/. [6] Rong Gu, Han Yin, Weichang Zhong, Chunfeng Yuan, and Yihua Huang. 2022. Meces: Latency-efficient Rescaling via Prioritized State Migration for Stateful Dis-tributed Stream Processing Systems. In 2022 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 22) . 539–556. [7] Moritz Hoffmann, Andrea Lattuada, Frank McSherry, Vasiliki Kalavri, John Liagouris, and Timothy Roscoe. 2019. Megaphone: Latency-conscious State Mi-gration for Distributed Streaming Dataflows. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 

12, 9 (2019), 1002–1015. [8] David Karger, Eric Lehman, Tom Leighton, Rina Panigrahy, Matthew Levine, and Daniel Lewin. 1997. Consistent Hashing and Random Trees: Distributed Caching Protocols for Relieving Hot Spots on the World Wide Web. In Proceedings of the 29th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC ’97) . ACM, 654–663. doi:10.1145/258533.258660 [9] Jay Kreps, Neha Narkhede, and Jun Rao. 2011. Kafka: a Distributed Messaging System for Log Processing. In Proceedings of the NetDB Workshop .[10] Kubernetes SIG API Machinery. 2025. KEP-5866: Server-side Sharded List and Watch. Available from https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/ master/keps/sig-api-machinery/5866-server-side-sharded-list-and-watch. [11] Avinash Lakshman and Prashant Malik. 2010. Cassandra – A Decentralized Structured Storage System. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 44, 2 (2010). doi:10.1145/1773912.1773922 [12] Mu Li, David G. Andersen, Jun Woo Park, Alexander J. Smola, Amr Ahmed, Vanja Josifovski, James Long, Eugene J. Shekita, and Bor-Yiing Su. 2014. Scal-ing Distributed Machine Learning with the Parameter Server. In 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI ’14) . USENIX Association, 583–598. [13] Bonaventura Del Monte, Steffen Zeuch, Tilmann Rabl, and Volker Markl. 2020. Rhino: Efficient Management of Very Large Distributed State for Stream Process-ing Engines. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of Data . doi:10.1145/3318464.3389723 [14] Rajesh Nishtala, Hans Fugal, Steven Grimm, Marc Kwiatkowski, Herman Lee, Harry C. Li, Ryan McElroy, Mike Paleczny, Daniel Peek, Paul Saab, David Stafford, Tony Tung, and Venkateshwaran Venkataramani. 2013. Scaling Memcache at Facebook. In 10th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Imple-mentation (NSDI ’13) . USENIX Association, 385–398. [15] Erik Nygren, Ramesh K. Sitaraman, and Jennifer Sun. 2010. The Akamai Network: A Platform for High-Performance Internet Applications. ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 44, 3 (2010), 2–19. doi:10.1145/1842733.1842736 [16] Redis Ltd. 2024. Redis Cluster Specification. https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/ oss_and_stack/reference/cluster-spec/. Ansai et al. 

[17] Ion Stoica, Robert Morris, David Karger, M. Frans Kaashoek, and Hari Balakrish-nan. 2001. Chord: A Scalable Peer-to-Peer Lookup Service for Internet Appli-cations. In Proceedings of the 2001 ACM SIGCOMM Conference . ACM, 149–160. doi:10.1145/383059.383071 [18] The Argo Project Authors. 2024. Argo CD: Declarative GitOps CD for Kubernetes. https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd. [19] The cert-manager Authors. 2024. cert-manager: Cloud Native Certificate Man-agement. https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager. [20] The ExternalDNS Authors. 2024. ExternalDNS: Synchronize exposed Kubernetes Services and Ingresses with DNS providers. https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns. [21] The Flux Authors. 2024. Flux: Open and extensible continuous delivery solution for Kubernetes. https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2. [22] The Knative Authors. 2024. Knative Serving: Kubernetes-based, scale-to-zero, request-driven compute. https://github.com/knative/serving. [23] The Kubernetes Authors. 2024. client-go: Go clients for talking to a Kubernetes cluster. https://github.com/kubernetes/client-go. [24] The Kubernetes Authors. 2024. Ingress-NGINX Controller for Kubernetes. https: //github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx. [25] The Kubernetes Authors. 2024. kubernetes/kubernetes: Production-Grade Con-tainer Scheduling and Management. https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes. [26] The Kubernetes Authors. 2024. Leases – Kubernetes. https://kubernetes.io/docs/ concepts/architecture/leases/. [27] The Kubernetes Authors. 2024. Overview – Kubernetes. https://kubernetes.io/ docs/concepts/overview/. [28] The Kubernetes SIGs Authors. 2024. kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime. https: //github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime. [29] The KubeVela Authors. 2024. KubeVela: Make shipping applications more enjoy-able. https://github.com/kubevela/kubevela. [30] The Prometheus Operator Authors. 2024. Prometheus Operator: Kubernetes-native deployment and management of Prometheus. https://github.com/ prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator.